A Refugee In Sudan

 

 

  

 

 A REFUGEE IN SUDAN

 copyright 2009, Jonathan Fine

 Story is provided free of charge for personal reading. Selling, photocopying, altering and/or reusing in other media, or the printing of more than one copy is prohibited and a violation of the both copyright law and the spirit with which this text is provided to you for free.

 

 Prologue

 Murahaleen.

 What is the weight of a single word- how much meaning can a word convey? Can its very sound tell of the attempted extermination of a people, of the darkest acts of man?

 Murahaleen. Say it to yourself. Mur-a-ha-leen.

 Literally translated, "people on the move", an Arabic cattle herd on horseback. More commonly- more recently- a mercenary, merciless death rider. Traveling in nomadic bands, widely known for killing, raping or enslaving the non-Islamic tribal residents of southern Sudan.

 I read an article. Time, US News- one of these. Probably in a doctor's waiting room. Jarring me out of my bloated, western hemisphere, black top and cable tv world. Masked death riders bearing down on villages amidst their horses' thundering and low lying sand storm. Swords held high- then slicing, stabbing or carving with avarice. Villagers standing defiantly before the door of their huts lost their lives through the jugular vein or the severing of their brain stem. Those attempting to flee might be decapitated as well, should the murahaleen rider be skilled enough, otherwise simply run through from spine to sternum. No male survivors of full maturity. Only a handful of men left alive from any given village and then only because they were not home at the time of attack- most of them enlisted as soldiers in the Sudanese Liberation Army. Girls and women and boys raped then killed, or beaten savagely and bound and strapped across horse back. All prisoners torn away to a life of slavery in the northern regions amongst peoples of different ethnicity and different religion who, for that very reason, treated their new slaves with relentless, violent contempt.

 

 Letter To My Son

 The counselors at the McGavin VA hospital here in Richmond recommended that I write down some thoughts and feelings about my recent experiences. Said it would help me to process what I've been through, to get a clear perspective. To move ahead and leave some of the horror I've seen, and been a part of, behind. As traumatic stress disorder specialists for the VA, I realize they most likely know what they're talking about. Nevertheless, I have held back a long time, been hesitant to do this, to revisit the personal and grander hells of the past few months. To face my fears about reliving the turmoil... and looking my own downfalls in the face, eye to eye.

 It is a bit odd, of course, that I should be here, that the United States military should have in any way taken possession of my situation, offered me harbor and care and convalescence when I was never even in the military. Even if I was in battle overseas.

 After some aid workers near the Sudan airstrip in An Nahud freshened my bandages, one of them, Amy- a pasty faced and scraggly haired young woman, newly arrived from Idaho, whose unabashed best intentions were outdone, perhaps, only by her wide-eyed naivete- called the US Embassy and somehow finally hooked up with a Squad Commander, in Al Dhafra, Egypt. She told him my story and, to judge from her face at the conclusion of the call, was as amazed as I when the voice on the other end of the line said "yes". Put him on the next plane to us, and we'll send someone to pick him up. "He is a US Citizen, after all," I did make out before the thin, raspy click of call's end. That voice, it would turn out, belonged to Captain H. B. Hattis of the US Marines. A military lifer whose focus on duty and country was almost as impressive as the steely breadth of his generous heart. I could not be more grateful, nor more impressed with the kindness and care I have received from that moment forward. But that is not what I am supposed to be addressing in my writings; this is what I have been told now that they have read what I wrote.

 The counselors here, they know enough, they have uncovered enough about me to suggest I address these recollections to my son. That he, and I, as father and son, are where "it" all started and therefore where I must begin as well. And so, Jamie- I dedicate this twisted little memoir to you. In hopes that it achieves both the counselors' goals and my own of helping to bridge the ravine between us. I shall do my best.

 

 PREFACE-

 A Father's Eyes

 I remember the day dream clearly, even now- many months later. Here's how the mind works; my mind. I saw an undersized cat running across the road ahead, then through the matted seasonally dead lawn of someone's late-March front yard. And I heard Jamie say, "Aaw- kitty." Meaning- "Little helpless, undersized kitty kat, why are you out on these dangerous streets? I hope you have a home." I heard him say it but he was not with me. It was a bright, promising spring day and certainly, I thought at that moment, the little cat, homeless or not, was safe in this quiet residential neighborhood.

 Instantly, though, my mind jumped to thoughts of animal abuse, the story I'd recently heard about a woman who'd witnessed a neighbor abusing his dog. Apparently she'd been with her young daughter and just kept walking. How does one react, I wondered, when happening upon some private instance of animal- or spousal or any- abuse? Just keep walking for fear of having a violent man's dark rage turned upon yourself? Or attempt to take some form of action.

 That's when the fantasy begins in earnest. A quick "Hey!" or "Knock it off", "Leave him alone". The true test coming when the abuser does actually break from kicking his pet in the ribs to strut threateningly closer, fearless eyes blazing upon me. The test, in any such situation, is the eyes. My eyes. And the will to use them.

 Look away, look down and you're nothing- defeated. A featherweight invalid. Does everyone realize, do the great directors of Hollywood know how much weight, how much strength, courage or failure, hinges upon a showing of gazes? Wolf to wolf. Or predator to prey. When he sits up in that chair on the witness stand, does your leading man make his replies demurely, eyes to the floor in subdued tones, or does he brazenly stare down the accused rapist or murderer? The great directors- and the world's best actors- of course they all know .

 So when the scumbag steps up to me with the challenge the , "You talkin' to me?", the "What the fuck you gonna do about it?", in my movie highlight reel, I see myself holding on to my son's 10 year old arm with protective instincts, shifting myself before him. Then, all doubt and hesitation gone as a realization of pure righteousness possesses me, releasing Jamie's arm gently, spinning away from him slowly so that I am his shield, gleaming fearlessly into the eyes of the villain.

 That's it, that's my day dream- standing up to an animal abuser in front of my son. Staring straight down, no, up even, into his eyes. Of course, such a moment never happened. Yet I always wondered. If I would, if I could, measure up- if it ever did.

 What father wouldn't wonder that at some point?

 

 Little Man Against The World

 Throughout my adult life I had walked, as best I could, through the ins and outs and challenges of my existence. Feeling, on occasion, too light, even hollow, to do so. Not fully capable of meeting the demands of adulthood, of parenthood. Knowing, just knowing, that a lack of true economic fertility was the primary source of this insubstantive lightness.

 So I once thought- until such a time as I began my walk down a mottled dirt track in central Sudan. Newly liberated from the material world, having sold possessions uncountable to finance my journey. Books, movies, furniture, appliances- maybe even my condominium, not knowing, having left before that scene could fully play out. All for airfare- both commercial and local- and supplies and the contents of a rucksack. And a divorce from the past. And walking, at long last, with purpose.

 I had been on the road for just over two and a half days. No map, no specific destination. Me and a discount sack from the local big box store, the clothes I was wearing, a floppy beach hat and the contents of the bag. The made-in-Pakistan Highcountry hiking boots on my already-aching feet representing the second of only two significant investments involved in this journey. The primary one, of course, inside the bag. Onward down the road I trudged. A road, to be certain, not like any of my experience, not even the two-hour-long, rutted dirt paths of my childhood summers in Maine, the byways to the ponds in the exact middle of nowhere. This one lacking in the uniformity one might take for granted while cursing potholes in the wilderness of America. Varying width from half of an average American car to two European minis at max. Pot holes, yes of course, but small boulder tops protruding at scattered intervals. Miles of greenery littered with short valleys of death. What happened here? The front half of a cow on its side, the latter portion hacked off, gnawed on, browned with sun dried blood, insect swarms, side of its skull corroded open- teeth and brains sunning themselves in varying degrees of brownish white and fading gray. A small hyena corpse strewn atop one of the stones. How. Why? Does roadkill exist on such a sparsely ridden path- I could only wonder.

 No human remains here yet, now and then, a deep red soil splotch. Clay perhaps, but being no geologist, I would not know. It felt like blood in my rumbling, easily nauseated stomach. And always, throughout the long hot days of this journey, the sun. Its primary mission to bake the last trace of moisture from my soul, to somehow more firmly force the dusty grit of this world into the increasingly deep crevices of my skin.

 I would find a village. I was headed for the the area known as the State of Northern bahr al-Ghazal in south central Sudan. The area I had read about in the magazine. South bound from An Nahud I would eventually come a cross Kaduqli if I could keep my bearings straight. Then Wun Rog. And even a river or two if I walked long enough. This much I knew. I had looked at maps at home in the states and roughly imagined how long it would take to find a village once I left the small outpost of civilization at the local airstrip. To find a village in need of a defender- who knew. Timing, obviously, would be key.

 One time, no, I'd say at least two, I came across refugee families, scared and hollow, dragging defeatedly up the path from whence I'd come- too lost in their own miseries to gaze my way, despite the clear difference in my skin and clothing from theirs. Except for the one- a woman- a mother with several ragged children of various heights- in an earthy faded orange dress and elaborately striped headband of white, green and black. Scattered with mud and someone's blood, but still aglow, somehow, compared to her fellow travelers, her maternal beacon unextinguished.

 She looked up from her children's curly heads directly to my eyes, gesturing emphatically first at me, then at the road behind her and her family.

 "Zighchuhk nunsa balkelah!" 1

 I paused in mid-stride, shoulders up, palms splayed. Perhaps this was a universal symbol for a lack of comprehension. I hoped so. Given the language barrier, I was not initially inclined to offer an English response.

 "Zighchuhk nunsa balkelah!!" This time with a crooking of her brow.

 "I... I don't understand. I don't know," I offered. But she had already moved on, continuing her steady survivor's shuffle onward with her brood and the several other frail adults in her group, her fiery doubt of me already having made its impact. "I know there's danger. That's," I thought for a second, "that's why I'm here- you know? You think I took a wrong turn or something? " I called after her. The words ringing emptily up to the sky.

 She turned her head quickly back towards the sound of my angry voice but, just as quickly, turned away. A cat but momentarily distracted by the sound of leaves rustling through the trees behind her. She had given up on me.

 

 I cannot honestly say I remember the minute details of the moment in my trek that fairly well altered the majority of my best intentions in Sudan, but it did involve my son. And the sun, also, of course. After some five days on the road, the impact of the sun on me in that climate cannot be said to have faltered when it fell beneath the horizon. I had packed twelve, one liter bottles of western water for my initial inland journey. I had supplemented that liquid supply with one of water purification tablets for the inevitable moment when it would be necessary to pursue a more local water supply. I was not just a little nervous at the thought of surviving off of potentially bacteria laden river water with little more than a tiny white tablet available to make it potable. Nevertheless, to pack more than those bottles - due as much or more to volume than weight- was simply not feasible. Rationing it out to ensure initial survival, I allotted myself one half liter, four times per day. Being a westerner from a northern climate, though, I could not have truly imagined the devastation of this climate shift on my own physiology. The hiker's snacks I had brought- designed for their light weight and high levels of energy intensive nutrition- were not enough. To shift one's caloric intake so drastically downward- and the sheer mass of the food consumed as well- while simultaneously increasing physical output and stress- puts an unsustainable strain on one's physiology.

 I do recall pausing in my steps for one of my dwindling rations of water, gazing into a rut in the road large enough to consume several American pot holes. I was thinking of the road to Pallidin Lake in Maine, my childhood trips with my parents, brother and aunt and uncle, and mostly how much I'd always wished for my son to have the same magical experience I had- a stereotypical parental wish. The moment began, then, while looking up at bare trees- as ignorant as I was about the local climate, I wondered if the fauna in such a place actually had deciduous trees that would shed leaves in autumn and bear new buds in spring. But it was May already and here still was this bare tree. A naked acacia, ahead some fifty yards to the right, caught my splintering attention. Jagged branches boldly crooking outwards once, twice and then out again. And I began to wonder, for some reason, if such a bare tree would be embarrassed to stand there just so before the world- or would it, perhaps, relieved of its burden of green papery growth, proudly thrust its defiance skyward, shouting to the world of its own majestic strength, of the life-sap still running within. Such a stark structure, almost wicked in the outline of its twigs, I concluded, was not a likely candidate for shame at its own barren condition.

 I don't remember falling, of course. I don't think many do after losing consciousness and giving way to gravity's charge. There were the trees, there were my thoughts of those trees and then, just when the world seemed to get a lot brighter and a cadre of locusts began bowing a buzzing crescendo in my ears- field of non-drone hearing diminishing like the air at the top of a filling water glass- there was nothing. Nothing I can recall from the balance of my time on that road other than the voice of my son- his voice on that day in the week before he headed out the door, cross-country, on a mission to save the world from itself- like a gun shot blasting through my head.

 My father- my own father- doesn't even really know me. But he goes to work every day and he makes his cash and so he thinks, somehow, that that means something. But what the hell has he ever done in his life that was worth anything? The bitter, disparaging inflection in the words. That being the pattern woven into the rug that had been pulled out from beneath my then surefooted, now wandering soles.

 

 The moment when my previous life ended began quietly. With total quiet, in point of fact. With a totality of emotional implosion that I never saw coming. In retrospect, perhaps I should have.

 A standard, quiet morning. Me in front of the mirror flipping a drab tie through its daily paces. Smell of aftershave lotion round about me. The meaning of the silence finally registers upon me as I stride down the hall, synthetic slack legs rustling together. Jamie. Jamie? You're up, right? I can't afford to be late today, I've fallen a bit behind on- Door shut-to, but not closed; I poke it open. The darkness inside instantly fills me with dread until I see that the bedroom is unoccupied. The matted carpet, rumpled clothing strewn about, guitar players and bikini girls strewn across the walls, but no one in the bed. The rippled and flipped cranberry comforter, however, tells me that it was slept in.

 A smile on my lips now. He's downstairs already. And me worrying about him oversleeping- he's beating me to the punch, outdoing me in my own routine! Proud dad- knew that motivation would come, would kick in before it was too late. An important day this, yes, and despite what I perceived to be evidence to the contrary, the silence, the apparent apathy, Jamie does recognize it. Does understand the importance of networking, of planning for the future by spending half a day at his old man's office. He does get it after all and the paternal heart soars.

 The daily ritual of studied mirror-side appearance revision all but complete, my mind begins to trot downstairs before my feet are quite ready to follow. Toast, butter, jelly? Oatmeal has more structure, more stick to the ribs than toast if the bread is white. And that's all we have, white bread, right? Never could get that boy to embrace whole grains no matter how many facts I quoted him about nutrition.

 I grab a few things to bring to the office. My descent towards inevitability begins.

 Down the steps. Passing first the framed kindergarten photo on the wall. That gap toothed grin- the childish insecurity of a young boy against the world wrapped up in that crooked smile. A lot of unadulterated happiness in there too.

 Beside that one, the year he apparently refused to smile, wearing that baseball shirt with the patches and the generic number. Brow furrowed ever so slightly like a headache was upon him. Perhaps it was. And on it went, the photos descending along with the stairs but also growing upwards, splashing here and there upon the expanding wall- not just the official school portraits but smatterings of various family situations, post-soccer game poses, birthday parties- down to the most recent in purple cap and gown. Overall a time lapse migration from a moderate, insecure innocence to a knowing cynicism. Organic smile to slightly forced.

 I hear murmurings in the back room, the sitting area where the television is kept. You eat anything, Jame?, what I would have expected myself to say. We need to get going soon, mister. Don't want to be late to your interview. But I don't; that simple fact making all the difference. My mind still adrift somewhere back on the photographic hall of fame and me trying to figure out, maybe, what exactly it was that I just witnessed, that which I'd walked by hundreds of times without really analyzing it. Still walking towards the back, absentmindedly twisting my neck from side to side from shirt collar discomfort when the rumblings of an unexpected voice reach me. Not Jamie. Not the tv- it takes me a moment to realize what I'd been forgetting, perhaps not coincidentally- the presence of my brother Jim. The pacifist, the slacker, the earth baby as I often call him , if only to myself. Visiting from Portland for a few days- and instantly I realize I don't like this situation, don't like him talking to my son alone- at this hour of the morning when he's usually still deep asleep even though he's thirty four and should know better, should be more mature, more aware of the responsibilities of adulthood by now. I stop in my tracks. What is he saying. Asking. -ell him?.. Did you tell him? Is that what he said? A quiet, No, I.. in response. I am within Jim's view now if he leans forward ever so slightly from the lounge chair- his face to me is obscured by the left side of the door frame. That, of course, why he would be awake this early, probably slept in the damned recliner. Jamie is seated on the couch to the right, out of my sight, behind the white and yellow patterned wall. It's your life, Jamie, after all. You should remember that. You're old enough to think for yourself. Shiftless vagabond- never held a real job in your life, don't you dare poison my son against me. Life is not all about hugging trees and saving seal pups. Some of us have to take our part in the machine in order for the world to keep turning, for no accounts like you to have clothing on their backs, food in their guts, functional financial institutions to manage their money.

 I could shout, clear my throat- anything to announce my presence. Yet I do not. I am a viewer- an outsider looking in. Inching closer, quietly. There is something going on here that the knowledge of my presence will disturb. The promise of imminent, uneasy, secrets unknown to me floating in the serene midst of that back room.

 The conversation continues. My own personal fog thickening- as if I know what's coming. He wants me to go into accounting, Jamie says, or business administration. Says it's a "tough world out there, that the achievement of financial success'"or whatever, making a living these days is something you can't, you know, take for granted. "Gotta take the bull by the horns"- you know he says that to me, right? And "It's never too early to prepare to be a grown up." My son mocking me. A disdain towards me that I'd rarely, if ever, detected in our face to face conversations. But it was true, I did say that. That and more. "What business do you have saving the world from itself? Why make the problems of others into your own? Christ, you're not even old enough to understand the complexities of the eco-politics of gas pipelines or of immigration law as it relates to agribusiness. Do you really want to fall into that bleeding heart left wing trap of trying to save the world from itself? People are hateful, greedy disgusting creatures who will rob, cheat, rape and kill given the opportunity. We can't feed all the hungry people in the world, Jame, we can't stop all the wars. We just can't. Take care of yourself first, Jame, it's that simple. Take care of yourself or no one else will."

 The vocal tones change, broaden and deepen, my brother is now speaking but I'm not listening- his responses predictable but, more importantly, inconsequential. The picture is changing, the world formed within my head dissolving into dark grains; clarity of that inner vision fading- a vision formed of certainty, built on past experience and absolute knowledge of the future. World beneath my feet spinning out of control.

 He wants me to be like him. It is less of a statement, more of a question. Akin to- Can you believe that? Can you believe that he would ever think that? Can you believe how pathetic he is?

 By now, the fracture has cracked open in the floor before me. A mile wide divide that I cannot cross. I am frozen to that floor, having lost touch with my feet below me, yet I know that soon, the right moment or mood will fall upon me, the numbing shock will dissipate then grow into rage and I will flee this scene in agony and despair.

 All the conversations, all the paternal advice, planning and advising. All, all a sham.

 If you want to take an alternate path, to choose social awareness or benevolence over materialism- I am sure he will come to understand. You know, Jame-, to understand the value of such a choice and to respect you for making it.

 No... No. I still cannot see my son but can feel him shaking his shaggy head vigorously from behind the wall. My father- my own father- doesn't even really know me. But he goes to work every day and he makes his cash and so he thinks, somehow, that that means something. He hasn't done anything in his whole life but work for corporations, or prepare to work for corporations. He would give me a whole rash of shit for pursuing an alternate life path.... but what the hell has he ever done in his life that was worth anything?!

 I hear but do not feel the items dropping from my hands. The heavy, thudding of an overloaded brief case. The crashing of the inscribed coffee mug that was to be my son's. The last image emblazoned within me from that morning the face of my brother as he leans forward- his eyes of shock meeting mine of fatal betrayal. In his face I see the horror of the moment- his own recognition of it as reality breaks upon him. He looks across the back room towards my son, then looks down. The stench of their secret, long held disparaging thoughts of me spilled out awkwardly across the floor.

 That morning was the last time that I saw my son. Although I never did get a final look at him.

 

 In my dream, a big buzzard was staking its claim on me, circling above, vindictively calling out to the world of my impending fate- "A-rara, a-rara, a-rara". I would duck and turn on a dime, sprinting as fast as I could, which was not fast at all in the unceasing desert sand. And with but a twitch of its flight feathers, it smoothly adjusted course and was above me once more in mere split seconds. "A-rara, a-rara". Exhausted, parched and devoid of hope, I fell face first into the sand. Gasping for breath. Breathing stifled. A suffocation-induced panic coming upon me.

 Return to consciousness was not a sudden jolt. The drift back towards reality began slowly. First, of course, an initial bump as the door to the here and now was pushed open, light bursting in from behind. For moments immeasurable I swam in the gray fog between the two worlds, simultaneously aware that the desert and the big buzzard were mere works of fantasy, but my feet still lingering there one further second after another, desiring to resolve the desperate plight of my fictional self. Then the rear door darkening and closing, my feet drawing up quickly behind me. A peaceful, hope-filled light growing within. The light of renewal, of undeniable optimism and a belief in the miraculous being called forgiveness. A new day was dawning, old grudges could, could and would fall behind with the departure of yesterday. A new beginning. My son would... we both could-

 My eyes sprang open as the odd but recently familiar odors of my new world raised me up to the reality plane. Nose first into a burlap sack spread across a cool, hard, red dirt floor.

 "BA-BA-BA, BA-BA-BA, BA-BA-BA," the loud volley traumatizing my now spasming aortic valves. Crusty eyed, I propped my front end up on my hands. Some seven feet behind and to the left of me, a man stood with a gun braced at shoulder height. Several old crates stacked, a small tripod upon them and a sleek but substantial rifle with a magazine strip running through it. Still dazed, I didn't fully grasp the meaning of the sight until I caught a glimpse of my sack open on the floor.

 "BA-BA-BA, BA-BA-BA"- cried my automatic weapon.

 "Badulaks oh montoo! Haahahaa-" exclaimed the Sudanese warrior beside me.

 "Hey," I protested. Drawing my legs up beneath me I began to rise. Began to-when the newly acquired cranial contusion began to assert itself. I fell forward onto my knees, then forward again onto my hands. Pain sizzling outward from the front of my head to the back. This was it- I was here. This was the moment I had traveled over 4000 miles for and trudged and thirsted and been scorched for and determinedly sought out. My gun... My gun!

 The noise started anew- this time pulsing through my skull with the throbbing force of the blood now rushing along in time. I howled up in agony from my crouch upon the near-bare earth, even as my equilibrium began to give way to that earth's swirling rotation.

 "That's my job. Mine, not yours," I sobbed in an overdriven voice, a volume and desperation I had never before heard and did not recognize. "STOP- just stop. My gun. My mission. Mine you... you... jer..." As the room began to spin about me in an increasingly wobbly orbit, my body began to waver- even down on all fours as I was.

 For the first time since I had regained consciousness, my host turned away from the rough-cut window through which he'd been gunning to regard me.

 Torrents of perspiration coursing down my face and back, my skin gone cold. Heart racing within in sharp, staccato beats. Ears filling with a rising tide of summer cicada-like tone, field of vision yellow and mottled. Even as I knelt there gasping, a return to ground level imminent, I held forth moments longer. My gap-toothed shack mate with his high protruding cheek bones regarded me with the mildest of curiosity, perhaps with a touch of sympathy. How strong of an impact would the shouting of unintelligible exclamations be, no doubt, to one living in the aftermath of a village slaughter of apocalyptic proportions.

 He spoke to me and I barely heard him, such was the hum in my ear- he spoke and any of the words that did come through, of course, had no meaning to my uninitiated verbal processing center. Yet he spoke and his meaning began to filter through-

 Lay down. Lay down foolish man from parts unknown. You have cracked your skull and you are sick now. Lay down and rest and stop your shouting. It is all for naught, all for naught- you have a duck's egg on your forehead- you are lucky to be alive and know not what you are doing.

 Rest now- rest.

 as he knelt down and slowly, gently coaxed me back to my resting place, parallel to the arid dirt atop my cloth sack bed. And me there wondering, consciousness fading, if my translation was, by default, invalid, wondering if there were actually any varieties of duck native to Sudan.

 I rested even as the gunfire began to re-pound its hammering vibrations into the ground. Even as the skin of Arabic mercenaries split red and oozing along newly crafted seams; merciless, tan faces giving way, instantly, to dangling red pulp. That flesh oozing life and framing teeth below the protruding, flat, white surface of the nasal bone as wide eyes- still intact- gaped in disbelief. How could this be? How did this happen? We the conquering tribe, the missionaries of our god and our people, mighty horsemen delivering Allah's message- "Death to the infidels, death to those who stand in our way. Death to an entire nation we bring upon you as decreed by our God and your own nation's government- death by our almighty swords."

 So thought they but now, on this plain, in this corner of the playing field, the sides were reversed. A large stroke for the underdogs, the victims of the ongoing genocide. I see, in my mind's eye, another murderer's body cavity spilled open by the workings of my own weapon and I toss restively on the ground. My mission to accomplish- my weapon, my mission, my sole chance to truly accomplish a thing of value in this world before my candle all-too-inevitably burns down to a lifeless stump. My battle, in at least one respect, yet my salvation being stripped away by the preemptive actions of a Sudanese gun thief. A fever, a concussion, a disease of the blood, my hosts would surmise, not supposing once that the fever with which I roiled in that moment was foremost one borne of the misery of deprivation, a child tortured with nightmares of sleeping through Christmas morning.

 I awoke in the night, my own hollow cry echoing behind me. Gasping. The what and where of it all standing upon my crackling skull. My left hand was numb, pinned beneath my knee, right hand dangled across the other, top most knee. Knees bent tightly up against my torso. No. No, no- I released my grip. The humiliation of it- to be seen like that? Something was wrong, a tortured misery writhed inside me, a lost, lonely wail bubbling and straining for release, but even in what I now recognize to have been a fevered, infected and deeply troubled state, I could not release my cry in this dark and foreign place. Unlike the infant I then resembled, inhibition ruled my world.

 Through several bouts of influenza, from the age of first memory at about three or four years of age until I was ten or so, I gained too much experience with the hideous psychedelic torture of feverish influenza. The gut-wrenching retch of wet then dry digestive purging, the intestinal upset through all available channels but, moreover, the overriding gale of confusion and misery.

 My eyes flung open after a likely mere thirty seconds of true rest, revelation raining down upon me with every measly drop of clarity remaining in my fevered brain. Water- I need water. Water or I will die. What do they say? A man can live for weeks without food but just three days without water? But where was mine? I had over three liters left, did I not - that and my potability tabs. Where was my water- where was my pack? Had the gun thief absconded with that too?

 Out of the darkness, softly, came the voice, apparently for the second time. "Water? You want water, chi-uld?" came the refrain from the midst of the thick amorphous gloom. " You must dreenk to get well.. you must," it was a thick female voice. And then it was upon my lips, a container and the elixir itself- the sweetest coolest liquid imaginable. It must have been five, six, seven - ten seconds and enormous gulps before I emerged for air, gasping and laboring, having nearly suffocated myself in the interim. A warm hand, tender if not soft, began to stroke my back, first atop my filth encrusted shirt, then sliding gently up beneath it and stroking my quivering naked skin.

 "Ees enough for now, my chi-uld," said the voice. "You cannot ovuhr dreenk at once. Rest now, you ahr safe weeth me now. You have been delivuhed to me and I weell watch ovuhr you."

 It was the voice...without a doubt... of an angel. The cool embrace of her mellow vocal vibrations. The soothing balm of touch- the caring, the flattering, the generosity of this stranger's skin on my own- how long had it been, how could my sensory memory have failed to tell me of its own starvation, of what it now so clearly had been missing for days upon months upon years. My long-since anorexic soul cast off its disease in this instant, or perhaps just for this instant, as my savior's stroking continued. My skin electric in the knowledge of this most unquestioning, loving caress. Please don't stop, please don't leave me. I silently wept myself to unconsciousness.

 I awoke with a sudden start. To my mind it seeming to be two minutes later, yet the bright sunlight pressing through the sheet-draped window told me otherwise. Her hand was gone, she was gone. And beneath me, this sack, this dirt had not changed, I had not been delivered anywhere. Here I still lay but she, she was, perhaps, but a figment of a fevered brain. No, no, no- to awaken from that dream was too cruel, too life abandoning. To awaken from such a soul stirring vision- desolation overran me.

 Alone and suddenly famished, I propped myself to an upright position for the first time in what felt to be days. Equilibrium spun just out of reach for several moments before coming back to roost, albeit precariously so, as I sat, propped back against a rough hewn wallboard. What now, what now. No food- no water? No contingency plan- none. Such a fool. It had all been about the getting here, the delivering of the village-saving weapon. Who would not have assumed that what happened next would not have been a near-instant death; that or a hero's celebratory feast.

 Timidly, inch by inch, I inspected the particulars of my current residence. Signs of need-based minimalism everywhere. The off-kilter, cracked-top plank table in the corner, battered school-style chair before it, the mini kitchen mere feet away, chipped stoneware plates scattered across a rusted, silver sheet metal shelf. Bright yellow fabric atop a lumpy cushion in the corner, side by side blue drapings across the doorway to the right blocking most of my view of the outside, stone-tinted sheet across the window opening to my left the only other feature along the length of the balance of dark earthen walls surrounding me. I was possessed of a most unusual feeling I could not place- I was alone and alien to my environs, yes, but there was something more. There was both warm light and darkness battling within. Perhaps it was the still-warm glow from the nurturing presence in that recent dream that my brain was still steeped in for the moment. Or the growing knot of fear I was attempting to ignore, the blind commitment to my suicide mission apparently evaporated into the cool desert night, insecurities of the new day and my current feeble state creeping back under my outer shell. That nervous energy I'd thought was gone since I'd left my troubles at home washing back in at full force- a tide once forgotten but apparently never truly released from its gravitational pull.

 Hobbling towards the window, pulling back one side of the window sheet, I glanced out at the world I had been unconsciously inhabiting. For how long, I did not know. Only just then remembering the previously conceived notion of what my eyes would find, in retrospect the fancy of a fool. For some reason, in my original machine gun "vision" months earlier, a vision that had stayed with me ever since, there had been but a solitary shack occupying the foreground of this scene while the caped and sword-bearing horsemen bore down from across a desolate brown plain. Perhaps the imaginings brought on by one who had viewed enough action movies to automatically imagine himself in one- for that was how the scene had first played out in the doctor's office. Me, the lone hero awaiting fate in a "shot gun shack", heavily armed and prepared for the thundering approach of the murderous, yet unaware and under-fortified villains. They could come all day, band after band, and I would be waiting to serve righteousness upon them, to teach them an eternal lesson about the wages of slaughtering innocent villagers. Why they would keep coming as the bodies of their predecessors began to visibly pile up I had never stopped to figure.

 The blackened hulking remains of countless neighboring dwellings were the first to capture my sight. Soot-blackened log support posts angling out atop broken down and chaos-infused cinder block walls, charred, torn and twisted metal roofing, entire roofs slipped sideways and folded upon themselves, crashed down atop the collapsed supports of whichever side of the building had burned out or been bombed, shelled or else wise torn apart first. Here and there amidst the seven or eight dwellings I could view from my window vantage, a few huts had been constructed in the near shadow of a former, more substantial cinder block house. Round mud and stick huts with conical thatch roofs. Tight, neat and symmetrical in appearance yet significantly smaller and less substantial than the prior dwellings. Turning my head, I drew my sight back within my own current walls- to verify that dwelling's own structure. Somehow, in my previous look over, I had completely missed the distinctiveness of the walls around me, and as I now gazed slowly across these concentric dirt walls, my head began to twist and reel with renewed fervor, their circular contour orbiting around me.

 A sound of faint humming and shuffling dirt drew my attention back outside. A boy in surprisingly western looking shorts, t-shirt and sandals jogged and jumped irregularly around from behind one of the new huts, eyes focused downward on the ground as his feet periodically strove to eradicate the life of a small creature, a dark shape merely one to two inches across that scurried before him with spastic, evasive movements. The two continued their dance for a brief time beside what I assumed to be the boy's dwelling, but just as I began to be entranced by their movements and their distant company, their path turned back upon itself and they hopped and scurried back from the invisible rear yard from which they had originated.

 Alone again. Beyond the outskirts of the village, past the ovals of shade of the scattered akuel trees too small to offer any significant shelter from the sun's relentless swelter, acres of brown earth occasionally kicked up clouds of dust beneath the hot gusts of the plains. The nearest green beyond it, banks of trees and grasses perhaps a half mile away, formed the limit of my current horizon. From my vantage point, the vast plain appearing no more than a patch of background on an oil canvas, one foot square. Nevertheless I recalled some of the more compelling aspects of the stories already emerging from this ravaged land, of lines of defenseless boys, refugees from villages just like this one, being stalked then savaged on nearby savannas- one or two at a time- by lions, invisible amidst the thick yellow grasses yet horrifyingly audible as they carefully, stealthily trailed along in muted pursuit, preparing for the kill. I swallowed clumsily as the thought passed through me.

 But there were no lions to be spotted anywhere in my line of sight. No ravaged corpses. In fact, no bodies at all. The sound of grinding sand and stones arose gradually from my right as an elderly man in a dark flowing tunic on a maroon and black bicycle rolled slowly into view. Calloused, bare feet painting patient circles through the air as he pedaled onward across the village, eyes fixed wearily on the horizon, oblivious to my rude gaze. A red cloth bound sack strapped onto the cargo platform over the rear tire, contents invisible save for the scattering of stick tips protruding out of the back end and the sounds of sloshing as the man rode past the hut and, soon thereafter, out of sight.

 Turning back to the world within the singular wall around me, I set about reconciling fevered memories with tangible fact. Standing there alone, the simple evidence was incontrovertible that if not for the intervention of others- at least one but probably more complete strangers- I could not be standing there, albeit on my own, after having lost consciousness some unknown distance away. Yet the screaming exchange with the gunman, as well as the angelic, nurturing giver of water, had taken on an air of the surreal in the arid stark light of this new and, for the first time in recent memory, clarity- edged morning.

 My gun and its accompanying sack were no longer visible. Their joined existence was, to me, undeniable as I bore no doubt of my pre-head trauma memories, yet in this stark rounded cabin, hiding places seemed too few for it just to be a question of my looking over or past them. Where? Under the single, small, slab table in the corner? Nothing there but a large pair of leather sandals with one broken strap and the torn, ragged remnants of a small teak-dyed tunic wrinkled into an oblong and two tailed ball. Nothing else visible but the dishes and the shelves, the latter hosting only two painted vases, several scattered carved wooden figures, and a small gathering of books clustered together. 2

 Food. The lack of it came upon me without mercy. How long had it been after all. My food rations, such as they were, were nowhere in sight and yet, if there were indeed people here, and there were more here than just the boy most certainly, then there had to be some semblance of edible foodstuffs about. Although cultural differences, I worried, could easily render me no better off after the local diet was revealed to me. Cursing myself for not having done proper preparatory research, I returned to a seated position on the floor to regather my strength. From there with my back against the wall, the view was of the table, the doorway beside it and the uneven swath of mottled village visible between the two drapes of blue fabric serving as the hut door.

 My first glimpse of her, it was the burdened gait that struck me foremost, as uneven as her hobbling progress was, so much so that for a split second I had mistaken her for a much older woman. Mere seconds later, her uneven path crossed before my sight line again. The dark, even movement of her laboring thigh cleared up any questions as to old age- the sack on her back and two oversized plastic water jugs in either hand explaining the particular style of her movement. In spite of the alien nature of my situation, an instinct to jump up and assist came over me. Just as quickly, it passed.

 If I had caught even a quarter glimpse of her face before she had entered the dwelling- or even had full prior knowledge that she was in fact going to be entering- perhaps I could have been better prepared. But I had not, and did not, and therefore was left to the mercy of spur-of-the-moment organic reaction. In fact, the moment I came to realize she was entering the dwelling, my primary instinct was to hide sheepishly, like an intruder or a thief- a violator of the sanctity of another's home. But there was nowhere to run and I was weak, seated with my back already to the wall.

 The sunken gauze bandage upon or in place of her left eye and the four inch thickly raised scar down the arc of her cheek required, by nature, one to either cringe and look away in discomfort or to stare rudely in wonder. I found myself confusedly fighting both instincts but settled for an uneasy combination of staring at the ground and greeting her surviving eye with a nervous smile before looking away again. She had been, some time not so long ago, a lovely and stately woman, I surmised, from the smooth brown strength of her one eye, the grace of her prominent right cheek bone, the delicate shoulder length braids draped behind her.

 It was that first smile, though, that I will always remember. The smile, brief and shallow lipped as it was, that she greeted me with as she entered the hut. It was not the rare, gentle smirk of a kind female passerby on a city street, not the natural easy friendliness of a stranger in a small, American town. This smile was kind but without a trace of joy. Understanding, but of things and truths beyond what the recipient would grasp. Sympathetic yet wholly without pity. I smiled feebly, nervously, back at her as she set down her burdens and began moving about without a single moment's hesitation or gasp for breath, as might be requisite for some at such a moment. She immediately reached for a glass, lifting what I gauged to be a two or three gallon plastic container- one pound per pint, eight pounds per gallon and thus sixteen or twenty four pounds of total weight- and poured a vessel full. Her arms were thin with only a small trace of bicep expansion upon the flexing of the arm, yet so many spindly sinews and tendons burst forth that one could only marvel at this demonstration of strength from such tiny appendages.

 She smiled demurely now, a gracious but silent hostess, bowing her head slightly as she lifted the vessel towards me by way of indicating its intended recipient, yet setting it out of my current reach upon the table. I was a stranger in another's dwelling in a strange and far off land... an unexpected shyness had come upon me. Inter-language intercourse had failed me thus far- I had vowed to work towards a more fundamental and low-key level of communication. She, wise to my verbal inadequacies, apparently, was operating under a similar proxy.

 I eyed the cup of water, knowing that she was right, of course, and sage in her fundamental understanding of water's vaunted value in the natural order- especially in the wake of illness or injury. It was, however, local water, most likely river water. I was not sure that my body could handle it. In addition, it was food, first and foremost, that my stomach howled for at that moment. And not a grain in sight.

 I had been gazing stupidly at the blurred wall beneath the table for longer than I probably realized when I finally sensed the shift in the low level sounds of activity within the room. My hostess was sitting quietly, bare feet flat upon the dirt, ankles together- watching me. As my eyes met her one, she quickly looked away, then down, then back at me again, then away. Just the slightest of upturn to the ends of her lips, then nothing. She glanced for a moment back at the water on top of the table, then back downward. Sadly, I believed. Pushing myself upright, swaying weakly for a moment as I gathered equilibrium and strength, I muttered softly. "I do, I appreciate the water. And the thought and the effort. I just... I don't know if it will make me sick. That's not ... I... I just don't know."

 "Suhr," the voice meek yet erupting through the silence like a starter's pistol. "Your water is quite safe suhr. To westuhn standuhds. I took a peell- I borrowed a peell from yohr bag."

 I must have blinked and squinted stupidly. "You speak English."

 "I speak yohr language," the quiet acknowledgment.

 "But you didn't say anything."

 "I thought you knew suhr. It would be rude of me, as a woman, yes, to speak fuhrst in the presence of an honuhred guest."

 I lifted the cup and drank a small sip, then another and another. It was cool- life giving. I had underestimated my thirst.

 "Do you feel much pain, for yohr hurt, fathuhr?" She touched her own head.

 I looked around quickly before realizing there was no one new among us.

 "Eet does not look well. You- eef you saw eet.. very beeg with many coluhrs."

 "I'm okay. I guess. No ice here though, huh."

 She shook her head, smiling but slightly. Running my hand gently atop the mountainous contusion, I winced more at the thought of its appearance than of its jagged sensitivity. I glanced at her scarred cheek then away again.

 "All een our village have much concuhn for you... yohr health, fathuhr. When you had the fevuhr and the sweat. We do not know, we do not theenk-some of us-" She stopped, catching herself. I could read the harsh admonition with which she was silently flaying herself from the arc of her eyebrow.

 "Oh fohrgeev me fathuhr- food. You are mostly stahrving for food at this moment. I am so sahry- so sahry fathuhr."

 In my mind the unavoidable question began, father, why father? It may have been social discomfort, being a helpless guest in a strange land, miles and gone from my all-but-unimaginably distant home at that point. It could have been instinct or sheer social awkwardness. But I will treasure forever the fact that I said nothing, for in the very short time I had regained consciousness in her presence, my new acquaintance had gone from calling me Sir to treating me as part of her extended tribal family. I did not, nor do not truly know what I could have done- especially at that early point- to deserve such an honor, but for some reason, the familial inclusiveness of this stranger was deeply touching.3

 She arose from her seated position, spun towards where I had just recently sat, then thought better of it and spun back towards me. Given her previously placid demeanor, I was surprised by this explosion of near-manic energy. She put her hand on my shoulder gently, released her grip to move the chair closer to me, then gently eased me into it with a delicate but strong grip on the cusps of both shoulders- a most reassuring touch.

 Returning to the wall against which I had been leaning, she took a small tool to the floor, a blade or paddle of wood, and scraped it back and forth across the dirt with a vigorous twisting movement of her wrist. Sitting there watching her as I was, head twisted slightly to the side, I was overcome with a renewed sense of weakness and a spinning imbalance. Gasping deeply, I prayed within for nothing more than not losing consciousness again, not falling over and damaging my head even further. I did not know this woman well enough- this is what I told myself as I gathered all available will to remain strong and upright- I did not know her well enough to pass out in front of her.

 I heard before I saw that the blade of her tool had struck something hard. "I apologize fohr my foolish wuhds when I should be taking cayuh to feed you, fathuhr- you must theenk me an unfit hostess."

 I shook my head as vigorously as I could afford to.

 "And yohr food, the foodstuffs you bring- I am most sad to tell you that they have all been, mmm... that they are all gone. The cheeldren, the village cheeldren, the few left heah, they stalked een here while I, while no adults were watching- for we have to gathuhr food and fetch watuhr, yes.... yes, the cheeldren were most rude and they deed open your pehrsonal bag. And the food ees gone, I am sad to tell you. All gone and we could not retrieve eet fohr you as they ate eet all- like fe-uhss lions. I am so sad for yohr loss of these theengs fathuhr, so much I want to apologize- all of the adults heah want to. The cheeldren, they are so hungry fathuhr. So hungry." Her voice faded ever so slightly- "Everyone ees hungry."

 The news of the disappearance of my rations raised a bumpy chill atop the skin of my neck and scalp. What now. Stranger in a strange land. No bars, powders or hiking rations. A homogenized, pasteurized and overly processed westerner living off the land in sub-Saharan Africa. My own calculations of the odds of my survival spun instantly towards a truly disheartening outcome.

 My newly adopted daughter appeared before me with two sacks and a small wooden bowl which she set upon the table.

 "All the foods we have, we hide, een case of mohr raids." The lid of a brown box stood propped against the same spot on the wall that had previously held me. I had been sitting on this woman's food supply and she had not said a word. "It ees not much, but we want you to have it. We weeell get more- we weeell find a way." As she spoke, flour from one sack and dry corn from the other were mixed into the bowl, one of the large water carriers hoisted again. A meal was formed as she whipped the mix together vigorously with a wooden spoon.

 "You must eat now, fathuhr, or you will nevuh regain health. You have been days now heuh without food. Any more than thees and you might get seeck stomach." I was handed the wooden spoon. I sat there momentarily gazing into the mush bowl as she, retrieving the two sacks from the table, set about returning the remaining supplies to safety.

 Clumsily, I dug the large spoon into the mixture. Perhaps less than enthusiastic with the meal before me but happy at least for the rough familiarity of the ingredients. It was crude cornbread batter without butter. Or salt, or milk and sugar. Once the first morsel hit my palate, I became ravenous and could not shovel it into my mouth fast enough to fill the hole within. Self-consciousness flew to the heavens as hand, corn mash and spoon flew frenetically up and down- I cannot even begin to imagine the noises that I must have made. Swallowing, gulping, chewing and internal exclamations of joy at this most fundamental of meals.

 "Slow now, do not choke yohself to death. The food will steell be there when you ahr feenished chewing the bite befohr." Her hand was upon my back again briefly, the voice gentle and kind. I looked up again at her as she moved past- this time without trepidation either way regarding her facial injuries. She looked to be perhaps twenty some years of age, but I found it impossible to venture a guess. Her lips parted over large, outwardly slanting teeth- giving her an appearance that typically- that is to say, in other circumstances- would have instantly rendered her unappealing to my shallower self. Yet it was her. It had to be- ten or fifteen years my junior yet not simply my new daughter- also the life giving nurturer of my previous dream as well.

 I had not imagined everything. And therefore the gun, my assault weapon- that had been used as well.

 Paused as I was in mid-chew, suddenly following her movements with full attention, she could not help but notice.

 "Fathuhr? What troubles you now?" I did not have the words to explain, nor was I certain that I even desired to try.

 I shook my head tiredly.

 "You are almost feenished then, I see. Yes? I- we all are sorry that it can not be mohr. But we must make all food last very long time and also you must retuhrn slowly from your fast."

 My thoughts having intruded upon my appetite, I had slowed my eating pace considerably. Her pace, as well, seemed to have slowed and it became apparent to me that she was waiting- making herself appear busy but waiting for something.

 "I am Jason."

 "I am most pleased to meet you Ja-sohn." She seemed to hesitate while considering her next move. "I am Macha Gailen. Een case you are not awaire, you are een what remains of my veellage, Baai Areet. There are but eight... twelve- eighteen of us steell living here. All othuhs have fled. Or beeen killed or taken." Macha's face was once again awash with world weary wisdom.

 "Where did you learn your English?", I said, attempting to steer Macha from her pain.

 She blinked and hesitated as her mind switched gears. " I attended Brown Univuhrsity in the USA for nearly two yeahs. I had studied basic Eenglish in my local school and had an Eenglish tu-tuhr there also."

 "Why did-"

 "I had to leave... I returned to my home when I heard how badly thee war in my country had grown. I had to be weeth my family." My steering had done nothing but bring Macha and I around in a very small circle. I suppressed the further questions springing to mind.

 A flourish of atonal honking beyond the window set my heart pounding. It subsided briefly to a dull distant chatter, then lifted and slowly faded, staccato scatterings of muted trumpet.

 "The peleecans," Macha explained.

 I smiled. "I did not know".

 "I did vehry much enjoy living some time in the USA," she stated without a trace of joyful memory.

 "Hopefully, maybe some day- I mean if things work out here..." I said

 She arced her right palm and outstretched fingers before me gracefully. "It is gone to me now. I do not think such thoughts evuhr." The breathy sing-song of a child's voice sailed and twirled carelessly in through the door drape. With it, a more sedate and even adult's speech sharing a reply that I could not make out. The child spoke again, footsteps and vocalizations growing gradually nearer to us by the moment. Macha turned her head to the sound briefly, drawing breath slowly back in.

 "So now I must ask you the questions."

 The questions? My heart skipped.

 I remained silent.

 A veil dropped across her features. Her weary kindness-tinged strength replaced with pure, cold detachment.

 "We, the village elduhrs and myself, we have questions. They ask me to speak with you- that ees to say, to ahsk you because I am the one left een the village with thee best English speaking."

 Her discomfort was plain; I twisted in my seat. Unease rising with pressure in my gut.

 Is that what all of her ministrations had been about- I was in some sort of trouble, this display of generosity and kindness was a trick to get my guard down? My mind raced, searching for any and all possible shoes about to drop. What if this wasn't even a Dinka village, what if this was some sort of a trick, a trap.... Long concealed memories of the last woman I trusted bubbling to the surface, my ex-wife Meredith dumping me over dinner at our favorite restaurant. Drawing me out into the public eye to minimize the drama.

 "I'm sorry fathuhr, ahr you feeling quite okay?

 I looked up into Macha's eye, pendulum swaying back and forth briefly between inner and outer worlds, then coming to rest hairlined across the border.

 "You ahr not weeth the Red Cross, I am theenking, no?" she inquired despite my not having replied to her previous query. Outside, I noticed, the voices had stopped. A short-lived dry shushing scrape- a foot moved on sand just outside the building? Nothing. Then a distant pelican squawk.

 "No?" I asked more than answered."Mer... Macha-" a question had formed but I was unable to track it down.

 "You are not okay, fathuhr. You should perhaps lay down once mohr. I am sahry." The more carefree version of her miniature smile. She was gazing fixedly upon my head wound, touching her fingertips to the unsullied portion of forehead beside it to gauge my temperature. My own self-absorbed paranoia already an embarrassment to me.

 "I will sit back now just to be careful," I replied and she assisted me to a new position against the wall to the side of the buried storage bin. "That was your only question, Macha? The Red Cross?"

 "You should rest now. You are looking more tiuhd and white. I am afraid..."

 "It is okay- I can rest soon enough. I am fine, " I assured her, lying.

 Her business face overtook her again- a light-dulling blind dropping once more, a black opaque veil, and all feeling of connection- of concern- from her had vanished. This Macha left no doubt as to where her priorities lay, or even who was in control. "You are weeth the UN then, or Save the Cheeldren?

 I shook my head no.

 "What ees the name of your organization then?"

 I shook my head again.

 "Deed you come heuh to harm us- deed you?"

 "What? Me?... No, I-"

 "Because we ahr not cehrtain of anything these days, you know- we cannot. I told them to trust you, I just felt that we could, and must." She bent down to the bag she had been toting atop her shoulder when she had entered. I only then realized that it was my own. Releasing the zipper straight across, she reached in without hesitation, drawing out the fully automatic weapon and laying it atop the table. Bending down again, she pulled out the steel tripod from the bottom of the bag, spreading the legs evenly, perching it dead center on the table top beside the weapon.

 "Why are you heah, fathuhr? We do not unduhstand, ees the simple fact. You come heah weeth a weapon and you ahr not from any govuhment... or ahmy."

 I shook my head.

 Macha looked at me, her one eye swiveling between the two of mine, and, apparently, realized something. A softening. Moments passed as she looked away, regaining whatever her harder level of questioning had forced her to set aside.

 "Then why, fathuhr?"

 I shook my head slowly, as if I did not know. "My son," I said. "I...." I began to choke up. She looked towards the ground, then away, then back at me. "I just, I thought maybe I could- I just... I guess I don't know."

 "It ees okay, it ees okay then," she comforted me with a gentle pat as tingles spread up my arm. "I unduhstand- I know about the loss of cheeldren." The utter solemnity of her voice lead me to believe that she did not understand, not my situation. I stared briefly at her protruding teeth and looked down.

 The hut's curtain parted and a gentleman of some sixty or sixty five years entered- the man I had seen previously approaching with the child. He wore a blue kufi hat and dyed robe with distinct blocks of colorful prints, each about one foot square.

 "Benybith," Macha exclaimed as she rose. She bowed shallowly and he nodded his head. "Jason, thees is Hutee Dut, our veellage's chieftain...beny bith."

 I braced my hands and arms in order to rise but she quickly forbade me to do so with much shushing and gesturing. He appeared content to allow her to do this, nodding a few times in agreement.

 Dut spoke briefly in Dinka and Macha translated.

 "You ahr most welcome to rest as long as you require, no need to worry yohself with formal greeting."

 He continued to speak in short, quiet phrases and Macha nodded and replied, occasionally in an inquisitive tone

 "We ahr happy to have you as our guest in Baai Areet ," Macha translated, pausing briefly as the man began to speak again. "You ahr welcome heah to stay as long as you need to gain yohr full health again." She turned back towards him, stopped to listen and then turned back to me. "You ahr very kind to offuh yohr assistance to the veellage in thees way but," she listened, then continued- "as you can see, ow-ah veellage has not been attacked foah quite long time and we feel the wuhrst of thees war ees now behind us- we ahr prepar-ing to move fohrwuhd from the most horrible pahst and beeld a new fuchah." Macha's voice had altered ever so much from that of a spokesperson, a press secretary, to the coerced reader of an unpalatable script. "So, yes, we ahr grateful but do not feel een need of thees weapon that you have offuhred to us. Hutee Dut ees also now inquiring eef you have any questions that you weesh to ask heem at thees time." She stood awaiting my response- as did he, an air of patience and wisdom about him- no detectable emotion readable upon her face, yet it was clear to me her preference for her elder to be on his way as soon as possible. The angle of her head, the tension in her shoulders. I quietly shook my head no.

 Hutee Dut had only just bid me good day, made promise of checking back on my health tomorrow and excused himself from our presence when I spoke up.

 "Macha, excuse me, I do have a question."

 She hesitated, at first apparently confused, but then nodded. I am not certain but I did , for a moment, believe that I witnessed a small smile at my having saved the question for her.

 "My weapon- the M60, my gun. I... There was someone using it. I don't understand, but when I was sick, I mean when I was first recovering from my head injury, I woke up and some one, a man, was using my gun. In fact, I was wondering if I'd even have any ammunition left." I made to rise towards my duffel bag, drooped as it was a mere few steps away beneath the table. "I don't think I understand because, because, well- who was he shooting, where are the..."

 "Ah yes, yes fathuhr, that was my brothuh Somra Chan . But seet, seet please fathuhr. Rest for a short time moah please. Yoah head is steell a heell of colors. No- I apologize for hees rudeness but, no, I promise you, he deed not use yoah weapon. He would not- we would not be so rude. He deed tell me he took eet out of yoah bag and I am vehry sahry, he should not have done so. But eet was just foah pretending, he promised me. I am sahry, I was not heah as I was meeting weeth the village elduhs and fetching the watuhr from the reevuhr. But he deed not shoot yoah gun suh, no he would not. Who would he shoot at een fact, the cows we no longer have? The members of hees own village?" Her sarcasm growing, she quickly reined it in. "He ees young in mind, fathuhr, you must realize. He may look to be a man but een fact may be moah boy than man. He ees like he ees playing with a toy," she concluded quietly, in case I was not getting the full picture.

 As I marveled at the near overwhelming strength of my prior fever, a thin strip of wood fiber flipped noisily up and back against the wall before me as a sudden gust tore through. Fwap, fwap, fwap.

 "I hope you wuhr not offended by the words of Hutee Dut. He ees from the old way of theenking and spends much time and wuhrk pretending that theengs weell again be the way they once wuhr. It ees not that he does not feel grateful to you foah yoah offuhr of help, but thayuh ees a stubbuhn pride een some of the olduh veelagers when a strangeuh offuhrs help."

 The breeze subsided, then returned again, the gentle fwap sounding repeatedly as the strip of wood trembled uncontrollably until the wind, at last, dwindled away. I nodded, knowing that a deeper reply was in order but unable to create one. My exhaustion no longer deniable, I placed my remaining questions and doubts alongside me for a future conversation and laid myself down atop them for a long past-due rest.

 

 Fresh air. In any climate, for any ailment, apparently in any culture, fresh air is known for its curative powers. In Sudan, among the Dinka, it is held in highest esteem. Macha, in stark contrast to the days before, was encouraging me to get up and about. Insisting on it, quite nearly. You weel nevuh regain yoah strength eef you ahr not causing yoah body to poosh to highuh level evuhry day. I know you steel not feel strong but...woost is ovuhr Jason, woost ees behind- I know thees, the woman knows, you see. I can tell by coluhr of yoah head... and the light in yoah eyes. And so, helping me to stand upright for the first time in days, Macha accompanied me to what might be considered her front yard. To an oblong boulder standing about three feet high.

 The sun flashing hot rays upon me, my eye lids cringing in shock.

 "The sun ees very strong heuh, hard on the body for strange-uhrs, yes, but ees packed full of enuhgy, yes? And healing powuhrs, just like the ayuh. I get you yoah hat, t'ough, so you no buhrn that white skeen." I sat on the boulder feeling, nearly quite literally, a fish out of water. An invalid out of musty hut. Being fully beholden to and trusting of young Macha's best instincts and intentions, but feeling nevertheless unsteady of head, uncertain of full physical strength. I slid down slightly from my perch to plant my two feet on the ground in the event that I needed them for balance or, worst case, needed to assume a prone position if loss of consciousness should again appear imminent.

 Macha returned with my hat, gently arranging it atop my head but careful to stop short of my wound. "There you go, Jaa- son. You set heah and get some ayuh and some rays from the sun. I must do my wuhrk now , you know- the watuhr, the corn, the washing- fohr us and other veelagers who cannot do foah themselves," she smiled an uncharacteristically relaxed smile at me. "I weell check on you- I weell be back befoah too long. You feel the breeze, watch thee grasses blow out they-ah," she pointed beyond the village perimeter. "Watch the cheeldren play, " she gestured to her right, "- just don't theenk too much." She took two steps away and turned to face me once more. "Just don't theenk, ok?"

 I began to wonder what was implied by these last words, but an outburst of noise from the small gathering of children down the short hill to my left immediately drew my attention. A wear-worn patch of ground, nary a trace of green vegetation surviving their collective footwork, stretching out around them. Exo-skeleton of a once-large brick building lurking some one hundred yards behind them- a wide foot path carved into the earth between the building and where they now stood together. A collection of cheers and lamentations- a small scuffed leather ball had just been kicked past one of the children and between the two stacks of rocks apparently serving as goal posts. The dust of their recent flurry of activity was still ascending amongst them. A couple of the larger youths- both wearing randomly patterned t-shirts- exchanged shoves. One of them was the goalie, the other the goal scorer, and the goalie was unhappy with some element of what had transpired. When one of the smaller children appeared beside them holding the faded brown ball, the dust cloud seeming to settle its grayish tan down upon his black hair, the goalie grabbed the ball away from the child and a tugging match ensued.

 Their match thus temporarily delayed, the others began to shuffle about restlessly. Several of them looked up in my direction and, seeing there not only their lone spectator but also the unusual visitor they had heard spoken of repeatedly throughout their small village, there began much shouting and pointing. The entire lot- perhaps fourteen or fifteen in number- then decided en masse to investigate, preceded by the two older boys who led the pack up the hill at a brisk jog, tripping and tumbling across each other as they stopped just before and all about me.

 That's when the examination started. With an energetic barrage of banter and probing they erupted upon me. Questions and shouts, exclamations and exhortation peppered my ears at a rate that even a seasoned Dinka linguist would have struggled to follow. Not having an option to follow along for even one moment, I smiled and nodded agreeably as I would have to a bantering soccer team back home, yes, yes, of course Jimmy. Uh huh- I completely understand. Wholly overwhelmed- especially given the wooziness of my mental state- but determined to show grace and a paternal dignity to this energetic group. They hammered on, now pausing periodically, the oldest and loudest among them continuing to question me- pauses more frequent as they awaited, in vain, my reply to each of their questions. I looked around amongst them. The patterned shirts I had observed, I now saw, were merely white undershirts, perhaps clean of bacteria and washed regularly, but nevertheless yellowed and stained from years of active use with tears and small holes telling the true story of the shirts' occupants' current situation that their blithely bantering teeth did not. All eyes intensely focused upon me.

 "I don't understand you. You must realize that," I offered with outstretched hands. "I appreciate the warm welcome and all but... Macha, " a strategy evolved in my head, "Macha told me to reeehst here." I pointed down at the rock. Sat up half and inch and back down, dropped my shoulders and closed my eyes. "Macha," I stated again for effect, "told ME," I pointed at my chest, "to REST", and I shut my eyes again. There was a brief period of murmurings amongst them, "mm, Macha- don dalama gost." "Macha- aaaa." But I was fairly certain they had no idea of what I was saying.

 One of them giggled, pointed at the rock and said something softly- a mass guffaw of laughter erupted from the lot of them. Assorted exclamations sprang up anew, with numerous references to Macha and a tone and cat-calling aaaoooOOO sound that I took to be an international standard for the spreading of sexual innuendo. Across the village at the same hut where the bug chaser had been doing his work days prior, a kerchiefed woman stuck her head out of the doorway in response to this swelling of noise and sized up the scene. After giving me what I assumed to be a dirty look for being the cause of it all, she withdrew back into her home.

 "Enough", I said firmly, raising my hands in the air. I could feel the heat rising to my face, the annoyance of the teasing and the perceived disapproving look pushing my temper to its limit. I reached out and grabbed the brown ball out of one of the senior boy's hands. "Here. Go. Play. I need to rest.. not be mocked in words I can't even understand." I tossed the ball gently back into the throng. The mild faced eight year old who caught it in his khaki button up shirt and tan shorts was quickly flung to the ground by the boy who had been holding the ball. Expelling disparaging words from his rapidly moving lips, he bent down and ripped the ball away, then quickly turned to the one he'd been bickering with after the goal was scored, shot him a parting remark and strode away haughtily, tossing the ball up and down before him as he went.

 Some of the others shouted at him as he went, calling him names, insulting his rudeness but he just smiled smugly and continued to move along until he disappeared from sight behind one of the burnt out shells.

 I had succeeded in drawing attention away from myself for the moment, albeit in a destructive way. The boys now turned to me as one, seeking the counsel of an elder, but found none. The dull ache and exhaustion centered in the back of my head was drawing me downward- and inward. I was in no mood nor state to be a playground supervisor. I looked but briefly, grimly, around the faces of those boys, then down at the ground. A few terse phrases were tossed back and forth amongst them, and, a consensus being reached, they headed back down towards their play area.

 All except one.

 A small boy with a striking profile, forehead straight and slightly oversized, its length magnified not just by its height but also by the trim state of his tightly curled hair, stood before me looking up. I smiled briefly, weakly, then looked away. Imagining the best way to be rid of him was to ignore his very presence.

 But he did not move. I felt a slight touch upon the back of my left hand fingers. Then his own fingers pressing up against the fingertips of mine- his thumb closing the clamp, albeit a gentle one, upon me. I looked back into his dark yet brightly shining eyes. He staring intently up at me; not at my own eyes, I realized, but at the aberration upon my forehead which most of the boys had missed due to the hat brim. His look, so intent and intense, did not waver.

 "It's alright. It's okay," I offered. "I'm okay- really. Don't be upset."

 He lowered his gaze to my eyes, young teeth chewing upon twisting lips. Returned his gaze to the wound momentarily, then turned his gaze away absent- mindedly, attention prepared to move on. Hand still wrapped lightly around my own. A mild burst of wind swirled down and across us, kicking up a traveling small dervish of sand as it swept on past. A bulkhead of gray cloud cover was sweeping across from adjacent landscapes. White tingling bumps rippling across my forearms and back.

 "Sahnder. Sahn-duhr!" the voice from across the way. It was the same mother of moments ago, maternal instincts bringing her to the doorway again, this time unhappy enough with what she was seeing to speak up. She scolded the child again and, when he did not initially reply or even react other than to look her way, she took a step forward and pointed at the ground by her feet. Little Sander looked up nearly apologetically and, reluctantly, released his grip from my own. As he shuffled in his disgruntled juvenile pace towards home, I wondered about the mother's reaction. Maternal concern about an offspring bothering a scarcely known adult perhaps, or pure instinctive fear of her child making nave and trusting contact with a scarcely known adult? The question evaporating unanswered as a sharp gust blasted sandy soil across my face, into my eyes and gaping mouth.

 I choked and wretched, momentarily blinded. Eye lids blinking in long, spastic strokes. Spitting upon the ground before me, hands flapping wildly about my face. The level of sound below my perch became louder. Something was going on among the village children, something new- something beyond soccer. As I continued to blink and spit, the sand stubbornly clinging on, the scene began to take shape upon the children's playing field. All of the children seemed to have some manner of object in at least one of their hands; most opting for sticks, a few for rocks or squarish objects I took to be pieces of brick salvaged from the building behind. One had what seemed to be a kitchen utensil of some kind- a serving spoon or spatula. Geographically separated at first by nearly twenty feet, the outburst of noise had apparently been the collective battle cries of all involved as the two sides rushed together, weapons flailing. Where stick met with stick or the like, mock sword play ensued- rocks and bricks were used to block both thrust and sweep of sword attacks and to brandish in threatening gestures as duos and quartets of combatants danced and bobbed athletically but harmlessly.

 Sensing the futility of such even exchange, several of the mock-soldiers from the far side of the battle scene pulled back and, ducking down behind gatherings of low lying shrubs, began an alternate course of combat, firing rapid courses of sniper fire upon the exposed enemy. Being thus taken by surprise but unwilling to admit that any of these mouth born air volleys had yet found their mark - the tuu tuu tu tu of these stick rifles relentless- the other army scattered for cover. Having achieved sufficient protection from the onslaught of enemy fire, the second band of mock-soldiers soon enough commenced to returning fire of their own.

 This back and forth continued for a brief time with an occasional break for the throwing of objects at one another from across the divide. If they were American children raised on movies, each stone would have most likely represented a hand grenade; for these young ones it was not clear whether perhaps a stone was just a stone. Jamie used to like to play soldier in the back yard, to play "war" with anyone he could find willing to do so. Having no brothers and having a sister who was many years older, he was forced to rely on the neighborhood kids as playmates. Many of them were too old for him to play with safely. I did not trust their instincts or style of play- a twelve year old all too easily and frequently finding it convenient to have an eight year old to taunt or to throw stones at- or even to pick up and threaten to throw across the yard. I did, at least once, interrupt the Stevens boys- Ted and Cooper- as they had Jamie stretched out side to side, both tugging on him and free swinging him pendulum style one affixed to each arm, attempting to either split him in two or launch him above the tree line, I'll never be quite sure. In any event, I did, on more than one occasion, end up as an enemy combatant with my young son. Ducking behind thick, ridge barked elm trees, gamely squatting behind juniper bush or small granite boulders. Playing the role of machine gunner, grenade tosser or bazooka shooter. Doing my best to endure for the full span of his excited attention, but surrendering perhaps a little too easily when he made his end-game charge, me throwing arms down and begging for mercy. None inevitably coming, though, as Jamie piled on my back and pummeled me lightly or went for the true jugular, an unconditional full fledged surrender, tickling me manically over my chest, stomach and arm pits.

 I know I committed the sin of partial presence in some of these rare moments, the omnipresent adult in me focusing on the repairs, chores or desk work waiting for me as soon as I could tear away.

 I don't think I played army with Jamie nearly often enough.

 I don't know concretely what happened next, but am fairly certain that for a brief moment I had seen some of the older boys of the far army throwing significant whispers back and forth, some others exchanging a few stony gazes. Something must have happened.

 For then they descended- within a black veil of gathering thunder heads, with a fierce pride and determination startling in its intensity. It could have been my own dizziness, dehydration or a trans-continental disorientation, but as the weapon-wielding youths bore down upon their friends and neighbors, the darkness of the land fell down upon us. As their sticks and bricks rose and fell, again and again, the suffering of their fathers and brothers and mothers rose from the pebbles and crimson-infused dust, the gloom of grim dark skies closed round about Baai Areet and the air shifted in a high scream from a pre-storm, oxygen depleted vacuum to whipping torrents of oncoming torment. A stick cracked before a seven year old skull - and I saw a death rider impale a child's parent. A heart sized stone prepared for flight- just as had the bullets that killed more villagers than still remained here. And as a large boy flung his young cohort face first into the ground, the specters of the raped, the stabbed, the bound and the enslaved that all of these children had suffered along with roiled and shrieked across the low tree tops. Did the co-soccer captain of fifteen minutes prior- did he who was by default a senior member of the village's male population- did he grab a smaller, weaker boy by the shirt collar and strike him across the mouth until the poor victim began to choke on his own blood? Did that young one's older brother, a gleam in his eye, strike an emaciated boy - a boy with an already disabling limp- across the back of the skull with a two inch thick branch and proceed to kick him in the ribs until the boy lay fairly gasping for life?

 There were ghosts, perhaps, spirits of relatives so recently gone, rippling images of unimaginable wrongs still echoing to and fro across this small village- but I do not know- I do not know what line separated concussive hallucination from rough and tumble induced imagination. I do not. A final stage of personal madness, or the inevitable transference of the torch of hate from Dinka-loathing mercenaries to the self-loathing and mindless rage of friend upon friend. The darkness of these acts lasted mere minutes but it refused to lift from before me. When I at last became aware of the passage of time, that Macha was kneeling before me and that I had been bawling hysterically for time unknown, children and parents gathered around me in wonder and fear, I knew only that I had failed. I was to have been, should have been an elder, a guardian, a respectable village guest. An outsider worthy of the generous moniker of "fathuhr". But I was not. I was weak. And distracted. And cowardly. Not a man of action or one who intervenes in the difficult situations to do the right thing. A mere detached onlooker- not a father at all.

 

 We sat face to face upon the floor, torsos hunched before bent knees. Rims of my eyes still moist and swollen- cheeks sticky with caked salt trails. Macha looking upon me intently, her eye stroking my back soothingly, cupping my chin in support. Her concern for me was real, yet I knew somehow, as I was no longer a total stranger, that the caring touch of her hands would no longer be so freely admitted as it once had been.

 "These boys...." she began. "These cheeldren, all of them have seen too much yet not enough of the full real life to fully unduhrstand how wrong.... how vehry sad and... and" she fumbled for a word, "and wrong thees all ees."

 The silence hung briefly, disturbed then by a long hot west Ethiopian gust that roared through the village, rumbling the hut from beams to leaves. Momentarily the thought that the little structure might actually lift off the ground troubled me, but the wind faded for a time and, gradually, beams, roof thatching and walls ceased to vibrate.

 I looked at this strong but peaked woman before me and still I did not know if she was speaking of what I had just witnessed. Or perhaps humoring the overwrought meltdown of her delusional guest who cries when boys bang sticks together. But she believed in her words- this much was apparent. She was not pleased that these boys should be displaying such affinity for fighting, should choose games of attack over games of sport and recreation- emulating, in whatever way, the murderers of their parents and brothers. She smiled at me for one shining moment, before then rising to contemplate the wall and then the window. It was a smile of intimacy- not an intimacy born of love or lust but one speaking of a bond of mutual understanding. She knew something about me, or thought she did. That was what that smile meant. She knew and understood and appreciated, she was telling me, that which made a grown man breakdown into pieces and humiliate himself in public, meltdown before the entire village in the town square.

 But what did she know. It seemed suddenly less significant than what she did not. Should not my generous and kind hostess know the truth; be told, once and for all, that I had not lost my beloved son to war, famine, disease or tragic accident? That the kind sympathy she offered with that tender smile was not being given to one whose senses were overly heightened and overwrought in the face of unnecessary violence due to an experience of personal loss? That this was just the last in a long line of cowardly and insufficient responses to adult responsibility? That no one or no thing had taken my son from me but me.

 She stood above me facing away and I knew- knew it all. Saw with a keen clarity what I had to do- what I would do. And it began with the truth. I would speak up- I would tell this beautiful stranger the truth at long last, and in doing so set the new and true path before me. I saw her there above me and me below and circles of clarity began to rise up. The circle surrounding Macha and Ja-sohn and the disturbing imbalance, even despite her guardedness, between what she brought to the circle and what I did- the truth, no matter any awkwardness, would begin to right that wrong. Beyond the two of us, the circle surrounding this village- Baai Areet and its suffering and loss, lost innocence and lost innocents. Collectively these people were in need of more than my personal truth could provide, needed aid, needed protection, but I would help them somehow, I felt the spirit rising within me. If I could not, as one feeble being, do it from within their circle, I would do it from without as a voice for their unheard voices, a crusader for their plight. The circle beyond this village, the troubled nation of Sudan, where government stood not for the rights of the people but for the rights of the government to centralize power at all costs, to wipe out indigenous peoples in order to stave off rebellion, to rob not just villages but entire tribal peoples of their land due to the quest for the dark, liquid riches rumored to be hiding below ground. Countless external circles around the globe defining the countless peoples and nations living their distinct and perhaps overly disparate lives, different yet similar to these poor people, and one overriding spherical circle encompassing them all- yet none more significant in light and meaning, drilling down, and down and down again to a far removed inner circle, than the one surrounding Jamie. All roads led back to him. All roads would now begin to do so. I would tell Macha the truth of my dysfunctional flight from home, she and her relatives and friends would load me up with water and what corn or other supplies they could spare- in a few days, when my balance and strength were more secure- and with, ultimately, a look of understanding and appreciation that was actually deserved, she would send me on my way with a generous hug, an embrace that could not mean more due to who she was, who I knew her to be, the strength and size of character that I knew to lie within. I would now earn her approval if not affection. I would begin to do so now.

 The loud vibration and hum of voluminous air movement across my ears brought my mind back to the hut. Macha was peering intently out the doorway, sizing up the situation. It appeared that the storm that had been threatening for so long was about to break. There were sounds of creaking and rattling beams and roofs reverberating throughout the village. In the distance, perhaps the clattering rush of water droplets flung to earth. Our little round cabin swayed visibly, thatching rattling vigorously, wall joists complaining. Wood slats blowing up and back at first too quickly for the sound to register but then, as the gust subsided, that same fwap fwap from before as they blew up then down a final few times against the wall. The windstorm subsided. It had blown right through, apparently, and onward to distant civilizations. I had thought this attack would linger, was the harbinger of an oncoming massive storm, but its sound and fury had soon faded.

 And yet the noise- the unmistakable percussive sound of the cracking wood slats- it still remained; as I gazed dumbly at the now still wall.

 As one, Macha and I seemed to become aware of the transformation of this noise of one from within to one without as our heads turned, cat-like, towards the door. Another distant crack. She looked down to me, eyebrow raised, cheek scar seeming to quiver briefly, not so much a question between us as a momentary doubt. Her aspect stern, suddenly alert, a fearless panther with a falsely docile exterior, yet she did not protest as I rose to stand beside her.

 "If that had beeen..." she said with bold confidence, striding towards the doorway as she spoke, but then stopped, turning towards me, more mild of tone and movement.

 Although I was at that moment already thousands of miles from my native environment, in a harsh and barren climate for which I was poorly suited for survival, in a land that I had every reason to associate with death, destruction and danger, the moment the wave of sound from beyond the outskirts of the village broke, there was within me, at once, a black hole, an immediate knowledge that nothing that had come before had remotely prepared me for what was now to be.

 A woman's horrified scream. More scattered shots. And the deep, dark , earthshaking vibrations of growing thunder.

 "Awanna kudafen jakonti nestome..." Macha's dark skin was ashen gray. This woman who such a short time before had been all of black sapphire and glacial ice now stood before me, a mere wisp of ash set to vanish into the ether. A sunken, shrunken and emaciated figure.

 "You", she turned and her wafer thing voice rasped upon me, and for a second I did not know what I was being accused of. She grabbed hold of my forearm with surprising strength. "You know you must keel them, Ja-sohn, yes?" Her head nodding. "You must keel them all." Her pleading eyes fixed upon me, the one there and the one lost. Wide with the fear-filled need for confirmation. "It ees the only way."

 "I- I- but I don't...." I hesitated. "I'm not really- I've never..."

 She grabbed the front of my shirt with both hands. "You ahr weeth the Deenka now," she exclaimed. "The Dinka men ahr the warriors. You ahr the man. Do you unduhstand me?" I nodded stupidly, unsure that I did.

 Macha spun from me and flung herself out the door in the face of fear, screaming Somra Somra as she ran headlong towards the instruments of death galloping down upon us. I myself spun, dizzy but no longer focused on the fact, towards the machine gun laid out atop the cabin's primary piece of furniture. The tripod- I had to attach the tripod into the base and set up a primary firing point, but where was the ammunition? I fumbled with the tripod, knowing there were actual directions and safety precautions printed somewhere along one of the tripod legs- or was it the bottom edge of the gun- and also a manufacturer's owner's manual somewhere down within the bag. The twenty five pound weapon in my left hand, the mounting tri-legged stand in my right, I fumbled clumsily for the mounting hole. Body shaking, shaking. There it was, yet to thread it, no- after a mere half turn it jammed, cross threaded and off balance. I turned the mounting stem left and then right, but the furious rattling of my limbs would not allow the threads to connect and the gun slipped from my grasp, clattering along the slanted table top, then toppling sideways down onto the floor.

 The storm of a thousand bloodthirsty horse hooves was drawing nigh- the pop of murderous gun fire, the guttural war screams of the Murahaleen. Here and there the faint cries of the villagers, the distant scream of Somra Somra echoing atop the mass of noise, if perhaps only in my mind's ear.

 They were here, the time was here- the reality of my former misguided fantasy nearly atop me and the gun, my gun, was not loaded. Afraid to remove my gaze from the window before me for more than a second, I bent down, feeling for the ammunition belt within my bag, found an end, grabbed the gun by the stock and shoved the ammunition into the side chamber. I could see the wide and swirling dust cloud, make out the bobbing black-swathed heads of the riders. Still but mere veiled threats of past deeds and those yet to come, but the fear of them was churning into a ball of fire in my diaphragm.

 As a novice gun operator, confirming that the weapon was securely loaded would entail firing at least one shot. Yet to fire that one shot was to announce my presence to the Murahaleen. I slid the safety catch forward and notched it down against the gun's body. Not prepared to yet attack, not desirous of attention, yet not wanting to fire blindly into the wall behind me.

 You must kill them. You must kill them all.

 With no innocents in view through the window, only the enlarging montage of riders, I aimed the weapon outwards, pulling back on the trigger for a test shot. A volley of deafening explosions erupted beneath me as the bolt action opened and closed, firing and reloading at an alarming rate, recoil from the gun wrenching me back and sideways. My location fully compromised, I hesitated one final time- a workable assault point through a small window without a doubt required the use of a tri or bi pod for stability. There was no time. The rumble of death's approach was quaking through my gut- the volume of it drowning all sound other than an occasional unidentifiable squawk and squeak.

 Kill them all

 I pushed myself gingerly through the dotted curtains, pushed, so it would seem, nearly unwillingly, from behind. Heft of the sleek weapon exaggerated by my weakened state, dragging heavily by my right side, tipping me off balance, a cheap plastic toy soldier in need of a counter ballast. Fierce glowing sun cresting above from a two o'clock position, village and savannah v-wedged out before me, barren of life along its triangular sides, opposing line moving in at a steady pace. Both the burned out and intact huts wholly devoid of life.

 Aim high. Spare the horses, my initial thought. The riders spread out, no less than ten across- a half mile or less away. Lines of stick-like objects visible, raised or held flat along their horse's sides.

 It chills me even now to recall the sheer panic, the flight instinct rampant upon me at the ever-enlarging, shadow-black sonic wall of the onrushing stampede. Yet I could not, no I would not run- and I could not yet shoot. What was the range of this gun? I did not know, had not even paused to discover while making the original purchase. Too far and the bullets would arc and fall harmlessly before their intended targets. Wasted. Ineffective irreplaceable. Six hundred meters away bore the riders of the black death inward upon their targets. Too far and yet still there I stood. Me- the absurdity of it being me standing there the only thing keeping me sane at that moment; unfurled ammo belt folded back across itself, draped down to the ground and trailing off infinitely behind.

 Towards the left side of my visual boundary, an akuel tree looking on, watching me- branch waving. Eyes of some exotic creature gazing across the distance at me, felt but unseen. But there were no creatures, no animals stirring- as I had observed mere moments before, no signs of life anywhere.

 Still too far away? Four hundred fifty meters. Tightness in the chest- burning in the lungs. Shoot coward, before it's' too late; shoot 'ya damned idiot.

 As my left side burst into hot sears of pain- feeling the attack before hearing it, something I had never before experienced- I was thrown back and around, tri-podded atop the red hot dirt upon two knees and what was now my only good arm. This- this, then, is it I thought- this is how and when I die- sitting back and facing my demons eye to eye, mere moments away- seated, legs splayed before me- a toddler at the gates of hell. So kill me already, just do it- all for nothing then, all for naught. No one to save, not even myself.

 But no- still I will shoot, I will kill as many as possible so that some, at least a few murderers may die. Aim high, the passing thought, aim high for the horses are merely horses after all. I had no more left in me- the fights back home, the battle for survival, the hour by hour grinding upon the stone disc that alternately sharpened, cast away and battered my familial ties; the heat, the nausea, the dizziness and the awakening too late of awareness of a life's folly from start to near-finish. Not so hard to surrender, after all, not challenging at all, certainly not when one's soul has already been beaten to the very threshold of death's door.

 Then- they jumped. Two black shapes hurtling from the tree atop the end most rider. One missing his target and bouncing, twisted and mangled, upon the earth and instantly ground into shards and pulp by horse hooves. But the other, the other making contact, body across the rider, then a clothesline arm swing toppling the rider from his mount, then the jumper falling as well. There was a wave of dust, a scuffle and one of them, I could not tell who, found the rifle and a shot echoed faintly above and around the stamping hooves. A darkly clad figure fell forward- the scantily attired rebel still standing.

 "Aaaahaaahh!" I screamed foolishly. "Aaaaaaaaaah!" The thrill of the improbable, the joy of the always defeated and now victorious careening gloriously through my chest. An ounce, a mere short and narrow shimmer of surface light revealed to my drowning self. As I look back now, I understand this to have been an extremity of exultation beyond any imaginable in the "real world" of the average person. No "Hail Mary" touchdown pass or extra innings home run- this was an improbable, no, impossible triumph of life over death when the end was all-but nigh. The celebration, wild and natural.

 And pitifully nave.

 The riders, so many of them, were changing course and screaming head long at full speed, hell's coursers bound for the hateful glory of instant revenge. No, I screamed. No. Without another thought I grabbed the weapon from the ground at mid-barrel, pinned it to my side between my elbow and hip for maximum stability and began to fire, all pretense of planning and precision blown into ozone. I saw the surviving Dinka man drop to the ground and scurry for cover, not knowing or pausing to wonder who was firing in his direction. As my first flurry of fire ripped through the air, I saw a horse buckle then fall forward- its rider tipping forward then falling limply off to the side. I quickly realized my mistake. Not the horse, for the first had no sooner crumpled then I realized that there were no, could be no innocents in genocidal rampage- no guiltless train engineers at Auschwitz. No, the trouble was my irregular firing position, for as I sat squeezing rounds through the firing chamber at the rate of nine per second, the gun stock was pummeling my side, my whole body, with merciless violence, the vibration riddling my bloody shoulder with shock after shock There was pain, so much pain that I could scarcely see and breathe; but I could not stop. My gunfire was scattered and so much less controlled than I ever could have planned- to spray shots in the overall vicinity of the left-most riders my only goal. With what little control I had, I swept my shots right to left and back, narrowing the breadth of my spray as riders and some horses toppled, limp oozing ducks in a gallery. I had vanquished my immediate target, that subset of death riders, but only then returned focus to the imminent destruction rolling down upon me, bullets peppering the earth round about me. I wriggled my body and weapon by degrees to the right to face towards the four dark riders whose mounts were sprinting towards me. No huts or villagers to pillage now- I was the main event. A three second squeeze of the trigger stung one of the riders in the leg, another in the side- they twitched and winced but their progress remained undeterred. A third suddenly grabbed his neck, I knew not why until the crimson liquid began to shine between his clenched fingers, oozing down upon him, pooling briefly into his nape, eyes white with the realization of his own failed immortality. As the unholy din of the machine gun abruptly stopped, I cursed the wretched and unforgivable timing of this mechanical failure, only to glance down and grasp the worst- there were now miles of empty munitions belt to my left, nothing at all but bare ground to my right.

 Three mercenaries were still left alive to decapitate, rape or slice me into chunks. One, at least, possessed a rifle and could puncture the life from me at will from soon-to-be point-blank range. To get to the hut, to my bag and more ammunition was my only thought- my sole chance. There had to be more than the twenty or so seconds of rounds I estimated that I had used. The weight of it, the sheer bulk of it all that I had packed in demanded it to be true.

 I would assuredly be perforated again by screaming hot metal as I crawled or strained upright and limped towards the hut behind me. I lifted the gun to my left side- I would need my right free for any form of movement I chose. My left arm hot, swollen and stiff, I could not feel my hand. Like a taxidermist molding a subject into an eternal pose, I, with my right, forced my left hand, finger by finger, to open, then close around the gun stock, my index finger strung across the trigger in some just-in-case scenario pose that had no basis in reality.

 The diminishing of the vibration in the ground below reached me before I fully registered the sharp level of noise decline. Then, the first sound of voices I had heard in what felt to be days.

 Up and to my right, a boy- a small slight bare chested figure- stood stock still, brow furrowed, shoulders back and proud, staring down the rider closest to him. A small rock the size of his own small fist clenched in one hand, a length of tree branch waving in his left. It took me only a moment to realize it was Sander.

 "Haaksulla lamut," he stated in his high pure voice. "Haaksulla lamut tan tutee!"

 Time stopped. The rider to my left had already spotted something or someone and spun off. I had, seconds before, heard staccato, pleading whispers directed to the boy from within or behind the hut- calls for return unheeded. The rider fifty feet before me, for the moment, had reduced himself to a spectator. The death rider at whom Sander shouted gazed on intently. Perhaps even one such as he might pause to consider respecting the raw determination and courage of the tiny, Dinka, warrior before him. The horseman's intent brow and squinted eyes gazing out from within his kafiyah head scarf displayed no such thing- the only sign of respect being the hard focus he fixed upon the lad, the pause as he weighed his options. Run him across by horse or swing down and cut him in two.

 Sander's mother appeared, moving swiftly from behind the hut.

 "Sahnder," she spoke uncertainly, her voice a-tremor. "Sahnd-errr!" her voice rose mournfully.

 Sander's resolve, perhaps, nearing a break at the appearance of a voice of parental discipline pulling him back from his wild, willful state; his chin began to tremble. Rock held high he stood, two solitary tear drops creeping down his right cheek, defiant little man against the world. And I saw my son. My son. The child before the young man. True to his own self in the face of any and all outside influence. Back when I realized, before the daily grind of all of the myriad microcosmic battles between then and now caused me to simply forget.

 A small wrist drew back with the skill of a seasoned player of a thousand games of bottle toss. The rider had seen enough, his patience, if that's what it had been, gone at the boy's threatening gesture. Curiosity no longer holding him back, right arm drawing down towards his left hip and what dangled there by its hilt. It was immediately thereafter as his head rose in parallel arc to his elongating sword that the rock struck his temple with a stinging, stunning and surprising force. He and his body paused for a moment, seemingly frozen in time, awaiting words of a verdict yet to arrive. Young Sander meantime, screaming with a totality of abandon borne of fear, outrage and youthful rebellion swept the stick across the front of his body, latched his right hand atop his left and, stepping forward like an elite batsman, brought the sweep and mass of the wood to bear upon the back of the horse's left front foreleg. The horse brayed, leaping skyward and the boy turned screaming towards his mother- the small, shirtless toddler girl I then saw clinging to her mother's violet skirt clearly the reason for Sander's mother's prior lack of further forward movement towards her son.

 The smack of Sander's jury stick having so spoken, the chestnut and white mount delivered the verdict, the convicted man flung spine first towards the hard-packed earth. Without a breath's hesitation, a flock of executioners- eleven and twelve year old boys, teenage girls and young women, all gaunt of face, coal-black and diamond-glint of eye, flooded out from within and behind the hut, sticks, rocks, plates and bottles in hand and fell upon the instantly paralyzed Murahaleen, vanquishing the darkness from his soul with their first round of blows, beating onwards countless poundings beyond the extinguishing of the actual life, punishing the corpse for the sins of its prior occupant. Searching in their erupted anguish for some unobtainable measure of true justice. And me, me thinking only my son, I must reach my son- I cannot yet die. Please don't let me die.

 The eyes of the rider closest to me blinked incredulously beneath his dark headscarf at this unexpected turn. He, like his late counterpart, had been dumbstruck at the activities of the young Dinka, hypnotized by the unprecedented attitude when all of his life's experience had led him to expect a reaction of blind terror and flight from all but the bravest of adult warriors.

 There was an inevitable rush of adrenalin, a fleeting crackle of goose flesh as the rapture of David's slaying of Goliath flushed across me. Gone in another flush as the sound and image of a new wave of riders- five this time, I believed- raised a fiery rash across my already screaming skin. Quickly I rose and hobbled to the hut behind me, en route to my bag, silently praying and awaiting more rounds of weapon fire- my own personal death rider in short pursuit. The surprisingly familiar scent of dirt, incense, corn, must and woman flew past me in contrary movement, then flailing hands, diving tips first into the formerly bottomless duffel, pawing wildly through air, clothing and wrappers of foods I had never even eaten. Finding nothing... nothing.

 And then he was there. He was short, about five feet six. Yellowing criss-crossed teeth smiling greedily at my helplessness- craving the measure of hurt and subjugation he was about to inflict. As I, foolishly, froze- apparently awaiting my fate rather than even attempting to improvise a self-defense or escape plan- he froze too. Hesitating for the briefest second as his eyes fell befuddled upon my forehead. Perhaps the severity of the swelling taking him by surprise- I myself had not even witnessed the wound to catch full measure of its visual impact. More likely, I surmised, it was the bold rainbow of shading plastered, as it was, starkly upon a pale canvas so unfamiliar to him in tone. He gaped, blinking, cocking his head slightly. No mercy or hesitation- just dumb wonder.

 In that bizarre breath of space between my closing past and setting future I had but one notion, albeit one of pure absurdity- to ask the mustachioed man with his prominent nose and silent film star eyes to pass along a message for me. A moment short lived. In a blink he raised his sword above his head, screaming long strands of dialect up to the sky. I began to scream as well as his sword pierced the thatch ceiling in an explosion of sound and then hung there, suspended and handless as the man's arm fell beside him- the density of the roofing material surprising, it seemed, the both of us. He with the appearance, suddenly, of one dying to have words passed along as well. His mouth dropped open as he stared towards me with new found compassion, unspoken thoughts gurgling out in globules of red and yellow to form a lifeless puddle in the dirt. Eyes spun upwards to his god- and his sword- corpse collapsing with a silent splash.

 From beyond the doorway, a white toothed grin and wide eyes exclaimed at me in near disbelief. A young man's smile and those beaming eyes and an excited head bob from a total stranger now intimately connected to me. Recently acquired dark oak and chrome rifle waving about vigorously in his right hand. Dinka words coming through to me- Did you see that? Did you see what I did for you? Did you? A face I cannot forget- to this day, tears in my eyes.

 In two hoof beats, he was gone. A flash of silver like a lightning strike slicing down upon him- and he was gone. No slick metal on metal movie sound effect when sword hit bone. Simply a click and a thud and in the shock, apparently, no time or impulse even to cry out. I stepped over the body before me and sprang to the door, a sickly, sickening wail beginning to fill my ears as I left the hut. The orange horizon, still so dusty from the recent arrivals, glistened with the hope of another world, any place but here, yet filled me with the hopelessness of its distance. Scuffles and skirmishes and wholesale slaughter were upon all quadrants of the village. The riders had taken it upon themselves to round up and eliminate as many of the rebellious women, children and elderly as they could chase their horses around- the Dinka, however, continued to resist. There were enough of them and few enough of the murahaleen that fighting was continuing, in many instances, in a two dimensional way, with rocks and sticks and other objects being hurled or brought down upon any part of riders or horses that were within reach, although the Dinka numbers ever dwindled as the sword of one rider found a new victim, the rifle of another placing a hole through the head of a young woman. From the village perimeter, periodic gunfire aimed, crudely, at the death riders. From Somra , I presumed, or another young villager. It was time. My time. No doubts or time for thought. I began to run- into the thick of the chaos. But through it- beyond it. Pure reflex. I looked once more upon this scene of utter devastation and bottomless despair and my feet seemed to know exactly where they had to go. Right side abdominal skin crackling with white heat- a pain of such intensity to overdrive the nerves beyond the point of clear and intricate function. Left arm pendulously swaying as I ran- the arm ballooned, by feel, invisible by sight as I still refused to take full view of it. Mind fixed and hardened beyond the point of concern regarding mere physical pain. Yet the steady drip drip drip of my own blood beginning to keep pace with my steps. Feet and legs clumsy and unsteady in my state, but the static of murderous chaos so tight about me causing every forward movement to feel reckless, suicidally swift, as I quickly drew myself closer and then away from every fray. Hideous wailing all about me.

 But I ran. The expanding horizontal billow of orange still laid out behind and across the shadow-pocked trees at the foot of the edge of the world. A devil's stew of cries, shouts, horse hooves, smashes and small explosions, but nothing overpowering the air raid siren's wail engulfing my eardrums. To my right, a thin figure on the ground clutching at the pink pulpy semi-circle of his neck wound, a rotten grapefruit split open and oozing, vainly floundering to contain the bloody levy breech without the proper tools as his jaw opened and closed, body writhing upwards in time with it, over and over. A dying piece of roadkill reduced to an inhuman oblong cycle of mechanical motor movements . This was my guy, my savior, a young man who had saved my life a mere forty seconds prior. As my movements passed across his line of sight and then beyond, there was no flash of recognition in his eyes. No flash of anything- just wide open shock. I could barely recognize him myself- that excited, celebratory smile now just a mottled and dying memory, or the near unimaginable folly of a wholly different man. He needed my help- he needed anything he could get.

 But I could not. I had to run.

 As it dawned on me that the rider who had done this to him had dismounted and was standing above him, my heart spasmed; my brain pulsing and freezing- but my legs did not stop. As the tangent of my path drew away from its intersection with this scene, the sword was arcing upwards to Allah. How could this be- how could such a thing be allowed to happen so closely? I heard the sword slice the air, then something solid, and turned once over my shoulder to glimpse my worst fears realized. Shrieks of unbearable pain and terror spiking upwards. I'm sorry, my friend, I whimpered to myself inside of my head, so sorry. I can't help you- I cannot.

 Forgive me.

 And as this eviction of life played on, the tissue-splitting hacks, the pleading shrieks continuing to smash up and melt with the still-static wailing in the air, I ran on. My son my son, how did it come to this. As the now-late vomit seethed up and out of my esophagus, corn mush and bile and disgust spewing forth and down my chin and already heavily soiled shirt, a new level of sonic clarity came upon the scene, my throat blocked, and I realized with the shock of a distant spectator that it had been my own pitiful cry droning through my head. Tears raining- perhaps an overdue paean to pain but now, more so, a down flow of despair and futility mixing with the puke of my revulsion. Vomiting at full run with no option to pause; to follow the natural impulse to bend over or even stop for a second was a luxury I did not have.

 To look back clearly at a moment of total apocalypse means capturing sensory elements previously blocked or overshadowed- the most dramatic and neglected being olfactory sense, scents not intelligible or even mildly acceptable to typical daily social interaction. The combined luxuries of shame, humiliation and embarrassment had been overtaken by the base requirements of life in a living hell. Survival at any cost. As I made my final approach, as I gasped towards the end of my life-draining run, the scents in the air were manifold to be sure- vomit, shit, blood, splicing flesh and bursting organs and the bodies of the combatants- attackers and victims both- oozing an acrid mix of stress, fear and hate through every pore.

 There were very few options for me, injured and unarmed as I was, but the choice was clear, my options already run out minutes and hours ago, if not earlier. When I had first caught sight of the scene playing out on the village plain before me, he had her by the arm and was dragging her roughly across the ground. He easily over six feet tall and broad across his white jellabiya draped shoulders, she all the more frail and skeletal by comparison. Macha reached up and flailed at him, making a valiant effort at self-defense, chopping at his hand with her free one- kicking and punching, then clawing at his groin in an effort to free herself. He, apparently, having chosen her to be abducted into slavery up north and she, I was forced to conclude- deciding she'd rather die a more painful yet more rapid death. The murahaleen spun around, pulled her closer to himself and began to beat upon her with a weighty force that spun her head back on its pencil-thin neck. Smashing her repeatedly across the face. She, being wholly subdued or knocked unconscious, hung limply once more and he began to drag her by her hair, those elegant braids meant for so much higher a purpose. As I grew closer to them, he placed her in a headlock with his left arm, drawing a long thick dressing knife from a waist sheaf with his right and placing it against her cheek, apparently contemplating robbing her of her second eye before either dragging her up onto his waiting mount or slicing her throat then and there. For myself, there were no solutions available, no strategies, no thoughts of the future or how to survive this moment. No time for my own most hesitant and analytical traits to slowly and carefully reason out the option with the most finely honed odds.

 Flinging myself up and against the assailant's broad back, I grabbed for his throat with the front of my right forearm, my feet and comparatively puny legs grappling for and then finding the front inside of his thighs as I hooked myself on with every last ounce of strength that I had remaining. MACHAAANOOO! I screamed without reason as I pulled back with all the strength of my good arm against the assailant's throat. He twisted his shoulders from side to side in an attempt to buck me off but still I held on, trying to pull him over backwards despite the vast differences in our weights. In the crook of his powerful left arm, his grip on the tiny Macha held firm, threatening to end her life by crushing her wind pipe if I could not weaken him first. As petite as she was, thoughts of panic assaulted me I'm too late- This won't work- The devil himself chose the odds in this fight, the ratios; his thick bicep to her fragile neck; my thin arm to his broad neck.

 It was apparent that this dark warrior was not accustomed to such a scene, to a feeling of helplessness, of being unable to breathe and to dominate the world around him in all directions and so began to twist around to fend me off, slicing recklessly behind his right arm, even stabbing his own thigh in the process but, then, finding what he sought- a section of my own flesh that he could reach. He began stabbing me again and again in the hip and thigh, intrusion of hot metal through nerve, muscle and tendon making my entire body jump, reactive, life-draining energy threatening to force the release of my headlock grip. As he twisted manically in an attempt to both attack me and shake me off, I knew my only hope lay in getting both of us to the ground, although to have him fall atop me could easily render me wholly helpless and make my grip untenable. To have my right side subject to further attack, however- to have my leg chopped off- was not an option. As he made his next desperate lunge for me, I twisted my torso in tandem with his own, shifting my arm's contraction from straight back to right and back. And then, we three, with much entanglement and wrenching twist of limbs, toppled to the hard but welcoming earth.

 Please, I pleaded silently, please help me. Then, realizing the nonsensical nature of silent prayers to agnostic semi-Gods, I dove head first into the fox hole.

 Please GodohGodohGod... I am a life-long failure- my ex-wife, my son, my dreams and highest ambitions.

 Please God don'tletmeletgo.

 I know I've never been a believer but please, someone hear me.

 Please- letherlive...letmygripbestrong.

 Though I may die here below, take me so that this brave and worthy survivor can live.

 And finally, with tears rolling forth, acrid vomit in my mouth, countless wounds screaming without mercy-

 Please let this good woman live- let my son's father create a legacy in his final moment to allow his son, at last, to know pride in his thoughts of me.

 From a strictly military standpoint, committing one's entire battle plan to taking on one combatant while in twenty to one hundred foot proximity to several other potential attackers can hardly be said to be the most sound and balanced of strategies. I did not know what would happen if I succeeded in this one mission and the other murahaleen then appeared and fell upon the both of us. It was not a plan after all. It was an action, a reaction, my sole logical chance of helping to save this woman who I could not, for some reason, bear the thought of seeing harmed.

 I remain convinced, despite all logic and the assertions of others, that I never gave up full consciousness during the lost minutes I spent pulling backwards against the larynx of the large assassin who I had successfully brought down upon me. My eyes were open, after all, my lungs voiding and refilling continuously as they let forth the beastly screech that I, eventually, became aware of- that I can still hear to this day. Where I went, where my thoughts and consciousness drifted during that time I could not say, but I assure you, unlike that earlier time when I fell down and smashed my temple across those protruding road rocks, on this occasion I did not lose consciousness. Just bright-eyed and sane self-awareness.

 I came to full wakefulness, the sounds of the present moment aligning themselves nearly in parallel to the echoes of the words just spoken. Increasingly desperate pleas of fathuhr fathuhr FAthuhr FATHuhR giving way to the hopeless and present screams of JAA-SOOOOHN, JAAA-SOOH-Oh-ohn. I blinked, attempting to draw the world into focus. Why she was screaming so- why she would exclaim so heatedly over my state with a world such as this all about her and closer relations, presumably, in various states of destruction all around- I could not fathom. Finally, then, realizing that I was still held captive by the large body of the murahaleen but that Macha herself was free.

 "You can let gooo Jason. Let go!" I felt, but barely so through the haze of deadened and tingling nerves, a light pressure on my hand. "Let go, Jason, let go-o-o!, " she cried, my lack of responsiveness causing her wailing to grow more desperate. "It ees ovuhr. It ees ovuhr!"

 I slackened my grip, barely able to find the neural controls for my right arm. The quivering, twitching, helpless limb was gently lifted up and away. The gradual rocking, then rolling off of the hot corpse atop me releasing a flood of cool air onto my moisture laden clothing and skin- a fresh wave of stinging and burning erupted by this awakening of the flesh.

 The Macha I had never seen before slowly appeared to me, her desperate, hysterical, mortally wounded soul wrenched wide open for all to see. I took on the scene first, for a mere instant, as an outside observer, then shrank and expanded into the nearly incomprehensible reality of it. She was kneeling down beside my right side as I squinted upwards until I could draw her into full focus. Dripping torrents of salty liquid down upon my face. Of sweat, yes, but also of her rampantly flowing tears. Pouring down on the one side from behind her purple, black and bloodied eyelid that had been beaten shut; on the other, the gauze and adhesive of her missing eye disrupted and upturned from dirt, sweat and tears, the horror of the empty, unfinished, dark and grainy socket peeking out finally upon me, her last secret revealed. "Jasonjasonjason, she screamed, "I cannot see- I am blind- help me help me I cannot seeeee" and from there the words becoming incomprehensible as full hysteria overtook her. Myself, until that moment, laboring under the misapprehension that any of this had to do with me- this world, this land, this village, these events- her plaintive wailings from above the corpse that had been shrouding me. I reached for her hands in spite of my own incapacities. I reached them, grabbed them and squeezed them tight. Dirt to dirt- blood on blood. She shrieked on, chest heaving, abdomen gasping. "Come here. Come down here Macha. I cannot reach you." Whether hearing me or even listening to me, or not, slowly she arced her back downwards, lifting her hands- and therefore my own- upwards towards her eyes. I pulled her gently back towards me, releasing her hands , placing my own along the sides of her rib-ridged back. Rather than covering her eyes, she turned her hands, palms atop me, pulling at my chest- lightly at first but then increasingly tightly until her grip tightened to a full frantic, awkward clutching of my body to hers, and me squeezing her shakily between my grasping hands with all the strength I possessed. There we lay distraught and disabled, sprawled upon the plain of destruction, the two last survivors on the face of the earth.

 She, after all, not my mother, daughter or lover but simply my Macha- of war, and blood, and grief. A stranger, in many many ways, yet together we had shared a lifetime of generosity.

 I swore in that moment to never move from that spot.

 There we did lay for time unknown; unknowable and immeasurable in a world laid barren. Wreaking, bleeding, gasping, crying and gulping for enough clean air to cleanse us of this wretchedness. It was the strangest of sensations that broke this unusual spell of pure commiseration- from out of nowhere, a poking. The pesky poking of a dog's nose as it tries to rouse its master to do its bidding. Then once more, but sharper than a dog's nose- more akin to the rough pointiness of a broken stick. Then a sound, a slight moan, a whine of annoyance- of impatience. I turned my head to the side to find the legs and feet of young Sander crouched down beside us. He spoke high timbred words of inquisitiveness and frustration in Dinka. Despite all of this, the devastation around him, the youthful nature of his spirit trumping all.

 Get up, he said. If you are not dead, get up and be with me. For I am young and scared and confused...

 "Sanduhr- Sanduhr, chi-uld, be steell", was all Macha said in a bare whisper as she reached out and felt for his hand to quiet him. And I knew she would be okay.

 I must confess that, strange as it may sound to hear of one wishing to linger at the scene of an accident- well, no, it was no accident after all, was it; rather, then, "at the scene of one's own near-demise"- I was at that moment loathe to release or be released from our embrace. I had experienced a purity of repose to have survived, to have helped Macha to endure, and to look around me and see all of the enemy to be dead, critically wounded or fleeing behind a dust cloud in the distance. To lay in the embrace of my curiously intimate new companion- blood, bruises and battery of ailments tangibly more tolerable in their melding together- was to know a highest meaning of comfort. Light on misery. Down pillow on bed of nails. Hours, days and lifetimes passed through us in the span of a few mere minutes; minutes and lifetimes that passed by, nevertheless, in an apparent span of five seconds. It was Macha's eventual suggestion that to retreat would be the wisest path which broke the spell between us. A thought that, initially, left me feeling slighted until she mentioned that with the smell of death so thick in the air, lions might arrive "in vehry leetle time." Most likely the larger, lazier males, she saw fit to point out, as the real hunting was left to the females. The gender of the beast that would eat me alive somehow not seeming all that significant to me, I grunted as I struggled to set us both upright- my legs prone before me, hers bent at the knee- but her thought was not yet complete.

 "Today," she gazed upon me with empty socket and crusty swollen lid still seeing the world clearer than I, "today the women of Baai Areet fight like lions. Lionesses." I squeezed her hands then drew her to me once more.

 "Yes, yes that is true," I whispered, without a moment's hesitation.

 The embrace was short lived as Sander began to poke and whine once more- it was time to go. I with my left arm danging from a helpless shoulder, right arm crooked, frozen yet burning in an internal lactic acid cast, right leg all but non-functional and still free-flowing blood from mid-quadricep and lower hip; she banged and bruised and fully dumb of eye. I, then, her eyes as we traversed the yellow and, all too frequently, red soil over rock, weed and corpse; she, all of eighty five pounds and underfed, somehow supporting the right side of my body as we staggered and swayed our way "home"; little Sander leading Macha by her right hand, occasionally pausing to switch sides and attempting to help me along by grasping my left leg with both arms and tugging it forward as we walked.

 No statues exist, nor will they ever, to commemorate our march back to the village. But such a sight as this, I feel quite certain, has rarely, if ever, been seen.

 * * * * * * *

 E P I L O G U E

 You may yet be curious as to how I came to be back here in the United States, in this tight and scratchy white hospital bed. In that regard, I suppose, the tale is not yet complete.

 Others approached to assist us as we grew closer to the huts. There were several casualties, of course, but many more survivors. What transpired in those next few minutes is largely a blur of gasping and wretching- of checking on Macha, being checked on by her and witnessing so many villagers- women young and old, elderly men, children- passing through Macha's hut to pay their respects to the both of us. Under better circumstances, if such a phrase is even appropriate, there might actually have been celebration at the outcome of this last battle. The villager's side had "won" after all. Killed the majority of their attackers, set the balance running. Stoned, stabbed and beheaded more than were shot and sliced to death by the murahaleen. I imagine, sure, that there might be such a time, a situation when a weary band of survivors might dance and cheer at their bloody victory despite having suffered so many casualties of their own. But for the Dinka, at that time, this second attack on their village had drained away any remaining traces of optimism- misdirected false positivity- from them in seconds. This was to start with, by the time I had arrived, a band of survivors, a gathering of limping souls who had witnessed a horrific slaughter of family and neighbors. Now they had simultaneously claimed victory and felt the last vertebrae of their spirits' backbone crack. The truth of their situation no longer something they could hide from. This situation, the murahaleen... it was no longer a one time occurrence; it was a part of the landscape, the fabric of tribal life. They themselves were, willing or otherwise, a part of the civil unrest characterizing their own central government's war on the tribal minorities of Sudan. It was just a matter of time before another attack, perhaps an army gunship next time; the government's war on them was ongoing, never ending. They had been slated for forcible evacuation or elimination- their land ownership, their sovereignty, in the views of the holders of power, had ceased to exist, and they would be evicted at all costs.

 To an elderly man, woman or child, how can I describe the feeling I get as I recall every last one of them stopping by, no matter how feeble or physically traumatized, to see me. Too see pathetic little me-yes. I cannot, will not, ever truly believe that their mind boggling generosity of spirit, their overwhelming humility and constant deference was truly justified as, one by one, they praised me as a hero, a savior. I am not one now, as you of course realize. And I was not one then. What did I do, after all, to deserve such respect? Ignorantly throw myself headlong into a situation I was wholly unprepared and unsuited for. Get in over my head, require the assistance of strangers and be forced into self-defensive acts merely by virtue of my own irresponsibility- and cowardice- in being there in the first place. Such random and panicked gun play may appear heroic to the outside observer, but reacting with appropriate fervor within a life or death situation... well, there are more heroic and braver deeds in the world at large than reacting in one's own self-interest during a violent attack; of this I am sure.

 Like doing the right thing when no dark force is upon you, shaping and coercing your every course of action. Like standing up for family, showing a steady guiding hand of love day after day after day when the daily grind of survival makes its so much easier to focus one's energies on the more controllable, the more regimented areas of a life. Business- career. I am no hero, son, you know this. But at this point I would settle for being merely one who you could begin to respect, again. At least begin to.

 Perhaps you have realized, as you read this horrendous tale, that at some point I stopped writing the story as a letter to you and attempted to transform it into an objective observation of what transpired during my trip to Sudan, in the voice and mindset of each individual event at the time of its occurrence. It only taking about seven steps down that arid African dirt road for me to realize with full clarity- despite any and all protests of conscious egotistical thought- and certainly from before I put pen to paper to create this mini-memoir- that the fault for the divide between you and I was mine and mine alone. The root of the strain between us was firmly and deeply wound into the soil of my own misdirection and confusion; how dare I expect you to take ownership of a seed you did not sow. I let you grow away from me. Insisted on it, actually, despite my occasional best intentions. I unfurled this tale to show you how completely off the path I had wandered. I write it to show you the extent to which my own self-misgivings skewed my perceptions. But mostly, it would seem, that this story was recreated to show you how very much I love you and how I pray to the silent God I all-but-never pray to with all available strength and passion for you to forgive me.

 Macha will be coming back to the states soon- for some restorative eye surgery, to visit schools, yes, and to reconnect with a former flame she had left behind when the situation at home forced her to flee. I finally got up the nerve to admit to her, my then blind friend, that my son was not dead. Just estranged. Even without a working or open eye, I swear I could see a look of incredulity beneath her brow. At my deception perhaps, or more likely the sheer stupidity of letting such a situation persist, or of being thousands of miles away from home in a war torn land when all is not in order in one's own house. I swore then as I swear now to do my best to make things right between us. Before this adventure abroad, if I would have said that I would give my right leg to have things right between us, to see you again... well, such words are usually hollow, who would have blamed you if you were tempted to shrug them off? Now, however, I feel fairly certain that perhaps you might actually believe me. As I have said, my actions in Sudan were certainly more foolish than heroic. Some heavy consequence was inevitable, anyone would agree, for such reckless behavior, and now that the inevitable has come to pass... well, I will only be regretful if we are not able to, somehow, make things right again- or, perhaps, right for the first time.

 As I struggle to find the right words to wrap up this story/letter to you, I am overwhelmed by a fear that you may come away from it without a true sense of my new-found focus, my commitment to undo grievous wrongs and my commitment to you, as the bulk of these pages have focused on my actions and interactions with different people from a different culture in a distant world. I was lost and distressed at the chasm between us. Although it was, without a doubt, reckless and a mite misguided, one might read my well-intentioned attempt at doing good as a sign of my devotion to you. Isn't it just like me, of course, to travel thousands of miles overseas to start that process of helping others rather than expending one tenth of the energy to turn around and have a true conversation with you. Well, count on this, Jame, if I don't hear back from you soon, my next harrowing adventure will be taking the wheel chair here beside me on a cross-country journey to find you. Rolling down the distance between us foot by foot and mile by mile- if that's what it takes, then that's what it will have to be.

 And, by the way, your mother is here with me. Yes, I know, unbelievable, but true. Something about disasters and accidents and near-death experiences seems to draw people together. When she heard, or I should say, when she read about my experience in The Post, she hopped a flight down here in a heartbeat. I was and am very touched by her concern. Somehow, for the moment anyway, whether it be the change of scenery or situation, somehow we've found a way to be nice to each other. Again. The true work will be in making it last.

 So I write to you in care of the last address I have record of for your west coast friend. I hope your work in fighting for the rights of the migrant workers, or for the oppressed of all stripes, is making a difference and giving you a sense of accomplishment. I am proud of you, so very proud. Always was and always have been, I just forgot to notice it in myself- I hope you realize this. I hope this letter finds you well. I love you Jamie.

 

 

 

 A free ebook from http://manybooks.net/