THRASHING MACHINE

 

 

 

 THRASHING MACHINE

 

 A Novel By: WALTER D. PETROVIC

 (c) Copyright October 1981 + May 2004

 Approximately 54,245 words

 513 - 25 Country Hills Dr. Kitchener, Ontario N2E 3L1 Canada

 (519) 570-4774

 walter.petrovic@3web.net

 

 

 CHAPTER ONE

 The world appeared inhospitable during this time of year. In poetry, songs and art, autumn is said to be the time when all things living prepared themselves to either sleep, or die. The biting wind tossed the leaves into a fury, scattering them into the faces of the people walking along King Street.

 There was a certain young man pacing the street along with the rest of the people. He appeared poor and destitute in his half slumped-over jaunt. His shoulders had the appearance of dragging behind him and his hands were shoved deep into the torn pockets of his blue denim bomber jacket, trying to keep them warm.

 Vlad was pounding the pavement looking for a job and this wasn't the first day that he's spent on this task. This chore, that Vlad was undertaking was in its third month, now.

 He had finished school some six months ago, studying music at one of Canada's leading national music conservatories, and subsequently graduating.

 This was to be his life and he knew it ever since he was a child but as with all dreams, most end up coming short of the desired fulfilment.

 The hordes of people were quickly strutting down the windy sidewalks, clutching at the collars of their overcoats and staring downwards, as if afraid to watch where they were going.

 Kitchener was in the middle of an October cold spell, as it was also, in the middle of an invasion of tourists, here to enjoy the annual Oktoberfest celebrations. This has been the most frustrating day Vlad remembered enduring. The teasing cold was setting itself right into the marrow of his bones and his hands ached. He refused to wear his gloves since he didn't want them dirtied or destroyed, having been given them as a gift the previous Christmas, and they were still like new. Vlad believed that he could endure the cold, which he passionately detested, until he could land a job. He would then buy himself the necessities which would be able to sustain him, until he could afford to return to the pursuit of his career; composing music and conducting an orchestra.

 Occasionally, Vlad ducked into a flatulent-smelling store to warm himself and while there, he forced himself to fill-out another job application. He had the procedure memorised: Walk in, as if you are important. Nicely request to be given a form and fill out the intimidating boxes. Name: Vlad Peploh, Experience: some, Education: yes, Desired Wage: more than you're willing to pay. At least, he filled out his name. He wanted to write down some funny or flippant answers. Maybe it would give him notoriety, but he quickly remembered where he was living: Kitchener-no sense of humour and little patience for those who try a light-hearted approach.

 He kept staring at the space on the form asking him his choice of employment duration. "Stupid!" he thought when he read it. A day, a week; maybe a year-or a lifetime? The real concern was immediate work for immediate money. Vlad liked to eat and he preferred warmer conditions. Vlad shuddered at the thought of spending one more year, let-alone twenty or thirty, in some store or factory. All that he really cared about was to have a life as a composer, and maybe some day to conduct his own material.

 It was Vlad's misfortune however, that he never was able to get the upper hand on anything that he had attempted in his life. He felt like a failure and he prayed, with all his heart, to Divine God, to grant him the blessings of good luck and prosperity. But, if God were indeed helping him, Vlad hadn't noticed. All that Vlad could see was the urine-coloured application form set before him with all those countless boxes that had to be filled. This was the worst part of looking for a job, he thought. These forms were really the degrading part of work, and not the labour that later came with being accepted through them.

 Vlad filled out this application form and handed it back to the paunchy, half-bald man, standing behind the counter. To make matters worse for Vlad, the man interviewed him right away, since this store was supposed to have an opening. Vlad was both uncomfortable and pleased for this because he thought that finally he may have a job.

 "Vladimir X. Peploh?" the man repeated the applicant's name as he looked at him with questioning eyes.

 Vlad just smiled and nodded.

 "Have you ever worked in a clothing store, Mr. Peploh?" the man asked him.

 Vlad took a deep breath of the warm stale air and shook his head when he answered.

 "Not really." he said. "I did work in the Simpson's stock room, three years ago, before I started University."

 The man jotted down something in the margins and looked at his applicant after he was finished. "Tell me about yourself, Mr. Peploh!" the man had asked in a tone of voice that made Vlad feel like that man didn't really want to waste his time on him.

 Vlad hated questions like these because he always felt like he was being put on the spot. His only thoughts, now, were to get this over with and get out of this place.

 "Well," Vlad began. "I'm punctual, reliable and above all, I'm honest. I work very hard at things that I find interesting and enjoyable . . . I'm fairly enthusiastic about learning new things . . . I figure that the more that someone knows, the more he will be respected."

 The man looked at him with eyes that were void of any compassion or humanity, and Vlad knew that he had to keep himself in line; according to the suggestions listed in the government's pamphlet on job searching.

 "Will you be continuing with school?" the man quickly asked him and Vlad shook his head immediately in a strong manner that suggested "never"!

 "I'm planning on working for a while-for as long as I can, actually. I'm mostly looking for a full-time job during the day time so that I can keep my evenings free. You see, I'm a composer and I have developed disciplined to write music during the evenings!" Vlad nodded his head in a fashion that looked as if he believed this man, lying through his teeth.

 He extended his hand to the man and thanked him and after the man reluctantly shook it, Vlad buttoned-up his jacket and left the store. The wind slapped hard when he was finally on the sidewalk. He felt the cold creep up the back on his jacket. He began to bitch to himself about the situation that his life had been in, for so many years. Many times he found himself wishing that he was a boy once again, living on the prairie with little worries or responsibilities. This was one such time. He watched the wind lift leaves into demon-like spirals, up into the higher stories of the grey, tomblike buildings. This sight reminded him of his early years in Manitoba, when he used to spend hours upon hours playing in the hot summer sun and giving names to the dust devils that were created by the slightest breezes that came off the plains and into the town.

 Even though each season was severe in its extremes, Vlad loved the prairie. Standing in the middle of wheat fields, he could see nothing but grain and sky for miles, and these were the times that he felt the closest to life, to all of nature and to the universe itself.

 However, Vlad was a child on the prairie and he had no choice but to adhere to his family's wishes, which eventually lead to their move into Ontario and the subsequent change of lifestyle that followed.

 Remembering the prairie had no longer given comfort to him and in fact, it now added to his feelings of loneliness and depression. That was an odd set of feelings within him. Although Vlad was now an adult, he still could not understand how he could be so alone with so many people around him, and yet, when he was by himself on the prairie, he didn't feel so absent from life.

 Vlad had managed to calm himself while he made his way to the King Street Mall, where he was going to have a coffee. He concentrated on his quick steps trying to get out of the cold wind when he could. By the time that he pushed his way through the glass doors, his eyes were tearing from the tiny bits of dirt and garbage that the wind heaved at him. His hair was made unruly, too; so before he went further into the mall, he combed his hair and brushed off some leaves that still clung to him on several places. It was warm within the mall, and the only thing that bothered him was his walking behind people who were taking their sweet time moving along. He wasn't that much in a hurry but sometimes things turned out to be ridiculous. Once-in-a-while a maniacal craze would seize him when he realised that the bastards in front of him were purposefully moving slowly to annoy him. He would eventually let the feelings pass from him, however, and he attributed the people's behaviour to the general impoliteness of this town.

 He was bothered by the atrocious music that was played over the mall's public address. He couldn't understand how any sane person could listen to a polka version of MY WAY, or Beethoven's FIFTH.

 Vlad ducked into the record store and flipped through several records, all naturally highly priced, as was everything else in this inflationary economy.

 He glanced over at the blonde, staunch-faced cashier then returned to fingering through the albums of music that he probably wouldn't have the chance to buy, in the near future. She would be fairly pretty, if she only smiled sometimes, he thought to himself. However, he was of mature-enough mind to realise that he alone was not the only one to have problems in this world. Nevertheless, he did envy her job, which he knew paid the minimum, but was also easy work.

 Vlad didn't stay in the store for too long. He wanted to ensure that this way was free and clear to walk at his own relaxed, yet quick pace, to his desired destination. The main reason he went the King Street Mall, was his insatiable need for a coffee, at his favourite coffee shop. He was badly craving for a fine hot cupful, and he knew that his friend, Henry, made the best in town.

 He stepped onto the down escalator that took him to the lower floor of Robinson's department store, to the restaurant concourse. At the bottom, he stepped off and sauntered over to The Coffee Bar and sat down on the bench table. He called over to his friend.

 "Hi-ya, Henry! How's business, today?" he asked him.

 "It'll pick-up, now that you're here!" he said. "So, what would you like?"

 Vlad looked over at the half dozen coffee pots with the blend names in front of each one, and finally pointed to the third pot.

 "I'll try the Peruvian Mocha." he said.

 The old man poured him a cup of the Peruvian blend and mixed-in a teaspoon of sugar, just the way that Vlad liked it. He's been nurturing his coffee habit at The Coffee Bar since his return to Kitchener, after his graduating the University of Toronto Music Faculty. It seemed strange to him that he couldn't do without a coffee for more than an hour at-a-time, and he figured, if he were going to ply himself with java, he may as well ply himself with the tasty kind.

 Henry was pleased to have Vlad as a customer and as a friend.

 After a few weeks in town, Vlad became a regular customer and Henry introduced himself. Since then, they spoke a great deal with one another and they became close friends.

 Henry was an understanding type of man. Having the kind of experience that came with age, and the wisdom that came with quiet observation, Henry understood Vlad and his problems. He had told Vlad that he was sorry for not being able to offer him a job but he could not fire his help, just to make room for him.

 Vlad was aware that they had a fine friendship going and he realised that Henry couldn't get him any work, so Vlad really didn't mind.

 "Have you found any work, yet?" Henry asked him.

 "I am looking." replied Vlad as he took a drink of the steaming coffee. "Ah, that tastes great!"

 "I wouldn't be in business if it didn't." Henry smiled at him and Vlad shrugged.

 Henry was an odd man. He was tall and fairly thin, yet his face had a pudgy quality, and it was deeply etched with years of lines that outlined his life to the precision of a road map.

 Henry Olfusen had originally come to Canada, from Denmark, back in the days when many Europeans thought that the whites in North America were still fighting against the Indians. He came over on an old steamer back in the 1930's, wanting to find a better life from the hardships that he had encountered in his own country. Although Canada was in the grip of a depression, as was much of the world, Henry managed to make himself a sufficient living, but only after he finally settled-down.

 Vlad felt a streak of the green when he heard Henry's history. Sure, he was happy for Henry finding his life, but he was also jealous that there wasn't a Canada to which he could run-away. "Them's the breaks, for being born here!" he thought to himself.

 When Henry arrived from Copenhagen, he was the composite and stereotyped Scandinavian cobbler. Anyone who was well-read could swear that he had just stepped out of some story by Hans Christian Andersen.

 Having a way with the shoe trade still did not guarantee that he would find himself a well-sustaining job.

 His first few months in Canada were spent walking from city to city, mostly in Southern Ontario. When the going got tough, he left for some place new. Within the first couple of months in Canada, Henry went from Montreal to Toronto, to Hamilton, to Kitchener. In all of those cities, he didn't stay any longer than just a few weeks. The longest stay-over was in Kitchener, but after a month he just could not stand the better-than-thou, snobby attitude of the Germanic majority living there. Naturally, he moved, yet again.

 What was disheartening for the twenty-year-old Henry, was that from all the travelling and walking that he was doing, about the only shoes he got to repair were his own.

 No one liked foreigners, so he found, and that was particularly true for those who could not speak the English language very well. Kitchener was a small city that was no different than others through which he passed. Here, in this city, if one were a German and had a difficult time with English, that was just fine. Henry's German left a lot to be desired, too. At any rate; no other foreigners were regarded as intelligent or trustworthy-not even young labourers that possessed a necessary craft or skill.

 Finally, Henry left and went to a small town, north of Kitchener, called Salem. On the way to Salem, Henry managed to meet up with the town smith who worked on the local farmers' horses, farm equipment and other such machinery.

 Returning to Salem from Kitchener, Karl Sanders gave Henry a lift in the automobile that he had made and they got to know one another fairly well after that. Karl allowed Henry to stay in the spare room of the service station and livery that he owned in town. Until Henry established himself, some of the little work he found, provided him with room and board, as well as with some money, which allowed him to buy leather and tools to make, and repair shoes. A few years passed and Henry fell in love with the daughter of the town Pastor, who under Karl's request began to teach Henry how to read, to write and to speak in proper English. Her feelings for Henry were mutual, and in his third year of living in Salem they married and proverbially, lived happily-ever-after.

 Henry understood what Vlad was going through in his life right now. He saw Vlad was a bright, well-educated young man. Like himself, he needed a helping hand from the outside to prove himself. Henry's star had shone for him, first through Karl Sanders' help and then through the love that he shared with his dearest late wife, Penelope.

 "Don't worry, Vlad. You'll get a job soon. It may even be in the music business!" Henry tried to be encouraging and supportive.

 "I can only hope, Henry!" Vlad said with a sigh.

 Henry served another customer while Vlad nursed the half-empty cup in front of him. He stared deep into the cup and watched the darkness near the bottom. He felt as if he were staring into a black hole that had a grab on him, and that was pulling him deeper and deeper into an unknown void. "Like a refill - on me?" Henry asked him, seeing that Vlad's contours were blank and flushed. He called to him and once more repeated his offer. "Vlad!" he said and watched Vlad jerk his head up towards him. "Would you like that refilled? My treat."

 Vlad hopelessly smirked and tipped his head in acceptance.

 "Thanks!" he said.

 "What planet were you on, just now?" Henry joked with him.

 "I don't know. I wonder if I am even in this same dimension." he chuckled back at Henry.

 Henry looked a little pensive as he filled Vlad's cup to the very rim. He set the glass pot back on the hot-plate of the drip machine and then leaned closer towards him.

 "Are you on drugs or something, Vlad?" Henry asked him in a serious and worried sounding voice.

 The question made Vlad laugh a little and he patted Henry on the shoulder.

 "Of course, not. I thought that you knew me better than that, Henry."

 Henry grinned and cleared his throat a little.

 "It's just that you seem really down today. More than usual, I mean!" he said and Vlad nodded. "You can be a great man some day, Vlad. But you won't be anything if you permit yourself fall into ruin."

 Vlad downed the rest of the coffee and stretched his arms, a little.

 "I've been tired lately. You know. When someone doesn't have anything to look forward to, or has something to do, you just kind of . . . waste-away!"

 "You're too serious for your own good, son. Just you wait and see . . . one day everything will turn-out for you and you'll look back at today and say to yourself 'boy, was I dumb.' Live life, Vladimir. Go home and work some more on that Musical that you told me about. You're not working, so you may as well. You won't accomplish anything by waiting around and brooding. Put your emotions into your music-it could only benefit you, in the long run."

 Vlad balanced his head freely in a nod that almost made his head look like it was ready to fall off.

 He understood what Henry was getting at but he didn't fully agree with him. Indeed, he could go home. He might write some music, hoping that his home environment would be tolerable for a sufficient period of time. Vlad was truly serious about once he started to compose, he would prefer to continue until he finished his project. Job offers, after he started to compose, would only annoy his already disturbed state of mind, and he was afraid that he would have a difficult time to continue with his musical work.

 Vlad disliked constant readjustments and adaptations to his life. As far back as he could remember, his life was a conforming life; always changing for the betterment of someone other than himself. He felt that it was his turn to do what he wanted to but he knew that life was never that generous, towards anyone, except to those jerks and assholes of society.

 He wondered if that's all that it took to be successful in life. Forget about honesty and clean-living. Forget about ability and integrity, and just indulge in life's excesses. Partake of drugs and of sexual perversions, and be as hateful and mistrusting as you can be towards your adversaries. Use them as the foundation block that you step up from, to fame and fortune.

 Yet, Vlad wondered if doing all these things, just to become worldly-great, would really be worth losing one's immortal soul for; and not only that, those negative aspects of life could hinder any form of purity from being expressed in his music.

 His music was good. He knew that the sounds which came from his mind, through to his hands and then onto paper, had that innocent purity that lacked in most of the other works composed by his piers and counterparts.

 He did not want to lose that purity that was within him. Just the thoughts of such things made him feel weak and even ill. He felt ill now, for such a reason and he could hardly bare it.

 "Do you remember that guy I told you about, from Ottawa?" Vlad asked Henry. "You know Jon Slater?"

 "Yes, I remember. What about him?"

 "That ass-hole, so I hear, is already apprenticing as an arranger for the Toronto Philharmonic." Vlad looked depressed and very angry. He actually was starting to shake from the idea of his chief-rival. Slater, was so far ahead of him, and he hardly had the expertise or originality for the job.

 Vlad was sure that he, and not Slater, truly deserved that apprenticing position. His qualifications were, as he felt, much higher and more impressive than Slater's. He had composed three original sonatas for his mini-ballet HERA'S GARDEN, whereas Slater only did a two-part variation adapted from Purcell's DEATH OF QUEEN MARY and Vivaldi's OP. 8 - ALLEGRO I FROM "SPRING". Slater truly could, brilliantly modify some other composer's works and give them a quality that resembled originality, but he couldn't do a damn with his own imagination.

 All this didn't matter in the long run, however. The judging of his work, against Vlad's, was as if no competition had taken place. The majority of the judges that he had sucked-up-to and totally impressed with his charismatic charm, chose his adaptations over Vlad's original works. Vlad prayed to God that he would, one day, put Slater in the place that he deserved; playing his violin, on some street-corner.

 "Don't let that bother you, Vlad!" Henry tried to comfort him. "You told me that Slater is what, some five years older than you are? It's only fitting for him to get his glory now, so that you can whirlwind your way to the top, and leave him behind in the dust, by the time you're his same age!"

 "I suppose that you're right. I am only twenty three years old. If I don't get killed by a car on the street, tomorrow, I guess that I'll have plenty of time to become successful." Henry urged him.

 "It's just . . . It's just, I want it so badly, right now, Henry. You know what I mean!"

 "Yes, I do, Vlad." said Henry, putting his large hand on Vlad's shoulder and then smiled at him.

 They stayed like that for a time that seemed infinite but which was, in reality, no more than just a few seconds. Vlad was finally beginning to feel a little serene and stable, and he palmed Henry's hand, still on his shoulder.

 "Thanks, for letting me chew on your ear, Henry. I'm so glad that I have someone understanding, like you, that I can talk to, without feeling embarrassed or ashamed." Vlad gave Henry a praise that pleased him greatly.

 "That's what I am here for, buddy. Don't ever be afraid to talk with me about anything, on your mind. I remember that I chewed Karl Sanders' ear, many-a-time, back in my younger days."

 Vlad stood up from the bench, slapped a dollar on the counter top and looked Henry right in the eye.

 "Don't you agree?" Henry asked his friend.

 Henry nodded as he took the dollar and punched up a sale, on the computerised cash register and then fingered Vlad's change out of the coinage compartment.

 Vlad was ready to leave for home but when he was handed the change he stopped Henry from giving it to him.

 "Hang-on to that for me, will you, Henry? That's so I can make sure that I'll have some money, on hand, when I come back here the next time."

 "See you later, eh." Vlad said goodbye and Henry echoed him with his so long, as he watched him rise-up on the escalator, and out of sight.

 Vlad still heard that infernal polka music coming over the public address.

 He couldn't understand how anyone could listen to that wretched music all day. He even felt fortunate, he wasn't working in this mall. That music would eventually drive him crazy. The least that the mall could do, he thought, was play Strauss, if they truly wanted to have polka music. Yet, for some strange and inexplicable reason, everybody turned into a German, for about two weeks, every October and that was regardless if they were German.

 Vlad disliked prejudice and moreso the bias side of it. He detested the thought that someone was automatically better than another person just because of the virtue of his heritage, religion, sex or of petty and picky details like hair and eye colour. He remembered watching some people on television giving their opinions about a line-up of men; of different sizes, shapes and colours. These people were asked to choose two of the men that they thought were genii.

 The program was a psychology show, and in that particular segment, the line-up of seven men contained the two genii. Twenty pickers, mostly made up of women, formed the panel that was to point-out these two men.

 The men were tall, short, fat, skinny; some were bald, while some were hippie-like, and a few of them were most like perfect masculine specimens. Most of the women chose the man that was tall, blond and blue-eyed, and looked as if he were raised on a beach by a converted bluestocking.

 The rest all pretty-well agreed that the short, chubby man, with the spectacles and the receding hairline was the other genius.

 The results were obviously different, so Vlad remembered. The two genii were, in fact, a couple of men that weren't even chosen. They were unremarkable in their appearance. One was an ectomorphic, middle-aged man of average height, with a red afro. The other was a slim young man with shoulder-length dark hair, piercing dark eyes and bad posture.

 Those two that were chosen, however, both had the lowest intelligence within the group.

 The blond hunk was a night-club bouncer with a vocabulary that was, more than not, made up of only four words: "what", "yah", "really", and on many occasions . . . "fuck" that was used in the form of a conjunction, while he spoke.

 Respectively, the short chubby guy was a postal worker, which for some reason didn't necessitate further explanation.

 This world was strange. Vlad knew that but he never really wanted to admit it to himself. He had realised, very early in his life, that it wasn't enough for an individual to try to make it on brains and ability. There were only a few people, scattered throughout the world, that refused to judge a person just on his, or her, appearance.

 Vlad learned long ago that life was unfair to those who refused to live it without deceit. Generally, being a good man in a world that praised the opposite-those ruthless and stern-he felt as if he were a cancer virus that was being consumed by the monger-like people of the world, serving as the antibodies against his presence. Outside, the weather didn't change very much since the time that he came into the mall.

 Sometimes, during this time of year, the weather changed very quickly. He had hoped that the brief half-hour that he had spent at The Coffee Bar, would see the quelling of the wind and cold, but it wasn't really much different. Vlad usually walked down to the transit terminal on Duke Street when he was ready to go home from the city's core, but the weather convinced him to wait for the mainline bus that stopped just outside the mall.

 He soon got on the bus, dropped his sixty cents in the fare box and stood by the rear exit door until someone got off at the next stop and he fixed himself in their place.

 The bus engine grunted as it started off and made its way slowly down the street. There were many people on the bus today and he didn't know from where they were all coming. Vlad looked at each and every one of the people on board and he wondered about what their lives. He saw a couple of pretty girls that were sitting at the front of the bus and he wondered if their personalities were reflective of their appearance. Did they like the same kinds of music that he liked or felt the same way about life's peculiarities, as he did?

 He didn't know what to think about anything, any more. He couldn't relate very well to a girl, on a one-to-one basis, when it came to wanting to get romantic. Usually, if Vlad liked a girl, he told her so, but he has had trouble with certain girls, at times, when he did so.

 He had found that most modern girls wanted a loose relationship that didn't tie them down to any one particular guy. There were also some girls that only wanted a sexual relationship and that would blow their stacks if something more serious were even suggested.

 Most of Vlad's musical compositions were based on that idea, of modern love-relationships. His music was the expression of the man's lonely soul crying out to be loved ... or, at the very least, to be noticed.

 For sure, Vlad was in his loneliest state, right now. He knew that he would be able to compose some crying heart-rippers when he finally arrived home.

 

 

 CHAPTER TWO

 Getting-off the bus at his regular corner stop, Vlad slowly made his way across the empty lot, and towards his house.

 With each successive step, Vlad sank deeper into the moist, sparsely grassed earth that still had not frozen-over from the cold. The squat shape of his parent's raised bungalow came nearer. To Vlad, that house was like a huge cage and the street, on which it stood, was like the pathway of a zoo. He did not want to go home today, but without money, he could not stay out longer or venture anywhere else to have some fun.

 His life has always seemed in this predicament. Throughout highschool and University, good times and entertainment was always sacrificed in the name of getting-by. He was never fortunate enough to land a half-decent job that he liked and that paid well. He always got stuck with doing menial-work, with a salary that never seemed appropriate, and then when he finally was going to University, he got an insignificant amount of money, as a Student Loan and Grant, from the government. He never managed to get a scholarship, for his musical education because his folks weren't wealthy enough. He had found that scholarships were only given to students of wealthy families so that the families wouldn't have to put themselves out, financially, to see their children succeed. Children, with families that had money, would seemingly be paid to do school work and therefore they never needed to work after school, as some teenagers had to. Everything was supplied for them - their cars, spending money and whatever else was a necessity for them to live. The only thing that they had to keep from going ultimately bored, since they had so much of everything else, was the challenge of school work, and they even did that well.

 Therefore, Vlad had noticed that the majority of scholarships given in highschool, for University study, went to the children of the more well-off PTA Members.

 That was all behind him, now, however. He hated to remember such things because it all made him feel like either up-chucking, or shitting. Vlad had a strangely warped, pessimistically optimistic, view of life and the only way that it could be changed for the better. He was positive, and self-assured, that the circumstances within his environment would only get worse. He believed that the only way for mankind to be straightened-out, was to be destroyed by God and then have him start life anew.

 His music reflected that particular belief of his, as well.

 There was a strong yet spiritually humble quality in the sounds that his mind produced. He had always hoped and believed that in some way God was instilling him with a special kind of skill and talent, but he wondered if he were just suffering through delusions. He was confused about his hopes of being divinely blessed with talent, and the strange problems that he was having in progressing with his life. If, indeed, God has given him the talent, then why didn't he give him a ready outlet to share it with the world?

 Vlad took his house key from his right pocket of his pants, unlocked the door then entered. It wasn't that much warmer inside the house than it was outside, in the winter air. He knew immediately that his mother had turned down the thermostat again, in attempts to save some money on the house heating bill, but Vlad could see that it made no difference. The bills were just as high every month, regardless of how the furnace's thermostat was kept. That was the way that business was run. 'Convince the people to pay more for using less', and his parents were just the kind of people to let themselves be taken advantage.

 Vlad could no longer care about their financial losses over useless bills. He tried, several times, to explain to them that things didn't have to work the way that they did, and that they should complain to some higher place about it, instead of complaining to him.

 However, after some two and a half decades of life in this country, his parents were totally Canadianized and therefore became as apathetic as the rest of the nation. If they didn't care about being sodomized by the utility businesses, and by almost everything else, including the government, he decided to be apathetic as well, and let them ruin themselves.

 Vlad closed the front door, took off his shoes and slowly counted to ten until he heard a loud gritty voice echo down to him from the kitchen.

 His mother was yelling at him with a heavy Hungarian accent, to close the door and take off his shoes.

 It was always the same thing when he came home; the same welcome and the same turn of attention to something inane, which he had already taken care of, himself. He bowed his head for a moment, trying with his whole heart to keep from screaming in tortured mental agony.

 He sat down on the bottom step and stretched out his legs. He leaned back on the rest of the stairs and looked up at the dark ceiling.

 "I hope I don't go crazy!" Vlad said to himself in a hopeless whisper.

 From the kitchen upstairs, his mother barked at him to repeat what he said.

 Vlad took a deep breath and went up into the dining room.

 "Was there anything in the mail today?" he asked her, as nicely as he could but he got no response.

 Playing that old deaf routine, again, he thought.

 "Did anybody phone?" he continued, more harshly.

 "Auntie Rita called and she told me 'dat she goes to Hungary this Christmas with-"

 Vlad cut her short. His voice was beginning to sound somewhat nasty, since he didn't care about Auntie Rita, because she wasn't a relative, much less any kind of blood relative.

 "I mean, did anyone phone for me?"

 His mother snapped back at him. "NO!" she hollered.

 Vlad shook his head and quickly left the kitchen, making his way to the basement. That place was his defenceless sanctuary. He was feeling worse, now that he was at home. His frustration had increased and he felt as if he couldn't breathe, at all.

 He closed the basement door behind him and walked to the corner pole-lamp and turned it on. He sat down on the piano bench and opened the cover of the electronic keyboard.

 Vlad began to pound away on the piano, his face contorting in a manner that expressed anguish and stern concentration upon the notes that he was playing.

 The recreation room and the rest of the basement rang with the loud pounding progression of Tchaikovsky's 1st Movement from Piano Concerto No. 1. He made the piano writhe beneath his fingers and the louder that Vlad heard what he was playing, the harder still, he tried to release the ultimate volume from it, until shortly he stopped altogether and slumped over the keyboard. He cried to himself without tears. Vlad slowly sat up and shook his head slightly and grinned to himself. He played some strange notes with one hand that lead him into a goofy-sounding little tune that he remembered playing when he was a kid.

 The tune was Dvorak's 'Humoresque', and it was indeed one of the first tunes that Vlad had learned to play on the piano. That was quite an achievement, he had thought, considering that he was six when he learned it, and by ear, too.

 The lilting and bouncy nature of the music brought to his mind an image of the past. He saw himself as a little kid on the prairie in Loretta Manitoba, running through the wheat fields with a few of his friends and having a good time with them, torturing the gophers that lived there, and being just normal kids.

 He remembered one of his first winters, too. Snow had fallen for a straight week then finally there was an entire day of nothing but sun and blue sky.

 He was dressed in warm clothing, so much in fact that he could hardly walk, move his arms or anything. Vlad was just four or five, and he recalled that he had become bored soon after going outside, but then wasn't able to get back into the house. His folks were playing around with him and they did not let him back in until he became hysterical, outside, in the cold.

 Maybe that was why he now hated cold weather, or at least he wondered if that was one of the reasons. He also has had some good times in cold weather and snow, so there had to be other reasons for his dislikes but he didn't care to concentrate his daydreams on that, right now. He was finally becoming calm, again, and with this new easy feeling, he began to play some music, right from his heart and soul. It was music that was like a wispy breeze propelling a dandelion seed into another universe and like pure, fresh water falling over a cliff that was a mile high. He was almost in a trance now and he wasn't aware of where he was or what he was doing. Through force of habit, he reached over with his left hand and turned-on his tape recorder, to record, and continued to play; perhaps to dream.

 There were the times that Vlad had composed some of his best and most emotional music. He was never fully aware that he was the one that was playing the music; therefore, he had conditioned himself to engage his recorder whenever he felt the sensations of him slipping away.

 The music that he was playing was slow and methodical and brought to his mind more images of his childhood.

 He saw himself climbing up the barrel platform that his father had built behind the garage, for storing gasoline. During the hot summer days in the Manitoba sun, Vlad used to play atop those barrels. Imagination and pretend, were the order of those days. He saw himself as the King, sitting on a grand throne above all the people of the world-so was the design of the barrel platform. Seven steps lead up to the platform that had two large barrels on either side of a smaller one. They were even painted in silver to reflect the scorching rays of the prairie sun, even though gasoline was rarely kept within them.

 To Vlad, this indeed was a real throne and his kingdom was one of plenty and fullness. He remembers feeling happy and safe.

 At the beginning of the third summer of the platform's standing, Vlad suffered through his first coup. He sat at one of the upstairs windows of the house and tearfully watched, as his father and brothers ripped the wood off the platform's frame, to be used in the future as material for fencing the garden.

 Vlad had begun school when the platform was built and many of his newly-made friends came over to his house, to play. In Loretta, Vlad appeared to have a strange power over the other children with whom he played. Whenever the kids came around to play, there was an actual respect, for his dominance, offered-up by them.

 The majority of the children, including Vlad, spent many late afternoons watching their favourite television shows. Sometimes, when they were all together after a long day of hard playing, they would all go into Vlad's house and they'd sit around and watch Roger Moore's IVANHOE and the HERCULES cartoon. Children learned quickly and shortly after the programs were aired, Vlad and the other Lorettan children began to construct swords and shields. They used old pieces of wood and some cardboard. Vlad's kingdom was armed and ready for any conquest.

 During the summer of 1965, Loretta Manitoba saw the rise and the fall of a medieval dynasty, ruled by seven year-old-boys. What was surprising, though, was that those children had followed codes of chivalry with the town's girls. During that same summer there was not a single boy, or girl, that hadn't exchanged their first kiss. A few of the boys, which Vlad was but one, had managed to get a kiss from each and every one of the prettiest girls. This was a great discovery. It was an uncharted land of mystery that paid-off in the biggest way. Later, they had managed to incorporate it, one way or another, into every game they played.

 Through his early years on the prairie, Vlad had learned much about the way people thought and behaved. He had developed some close friends but he had also developed a few fiery adversaries that felt threatened by being subordinate to him. It was Vlad's nature, as a child, to take charge of whatever happened, during the games. He had noticed that when given the chance to initiate the playing, his adversaries just sat around and picked their noses while they tried to figure out some new kind of game.

 Vlad, however, always intervened after a while and he came up with totally new ideas for having fun with his friends. With Vlad leading their childhood games, there was hardly ever the regular 'cops-n-robbers', or 'cowboys-n-injuns'.

 Vlad had learned about each and every emotion that the human being was capable of feeling, while he was growing up in that small town.

 He learned about love when he began to play with only one girl from his class during recess. Her name was Laurette. He kidded with her, telling her that the town was hers' because it was named for her. All the people that lived there belonged to her, so there was no choice but for her to be his queen: Vlad was so smooth, for a kid.

 September; back to school, he and Laurette hardly ever played any games. By that time all their games included some degree of smooching. Soon, they threw the play away and just smooched. It was on Labour Day that they both discovered their tongues. Play was never quite the same. They went for lengthy walks, hid in bushes, barns, or wherever they could, experimenting with their lips, and their hands.

 Vlad remembered, and a small grin came across his face. Good thing we were naive and didn't know about actual sex, Vlad thought to himself.

 Unlike other towns and cities that saw their children growing up saying that they didn't like their opposite's sex, Loretta Manitoba saw its children growing up knowing the difference between boys and girls, and even learning to respect those differences, to a certain degree.

 Vlad remembered, with wonder. It was a wonder about how open but innocent life was, lacking any major complications. They were all just kids, and nothing more. They were kids with great imaginations, and greater curiosity. He missed those days.

 The music he played was changing in its mood and intensity when he began to remember his first run-in with jealousy; a jealousy caused by him, then later felt by him.

 A new girl had moved to town late in the fall of his third grade. His heart forced his eyes to behold an angel of golden blonde hair with eyes that were like polished turquoise marbles. Her name was Tracy. He had begun to play with her more than with Laurette, making her temper flare to the point where she was always smacking Tracy.

 Not much time went by until Laurette began to get chummy with Vlad's best friend, Marty MacFarlane.

 Vlad was deeply hurt by this, mainly because he was going to buddy with Laurette, again. Tracy was not interested in being as friendly as Vlad wanted. He didn't understand why Tracy didn't like the kissing play. But now Laurette was avoiding him, too. She spent most of her time with Marty- kissing him, a lot, and in front of Vlad. Laurette's cruelty didn't last very long but Vlad never recovered from the hurt that he felt; especially from his realisation of hurting Laurette, first.

 During that time of his switch-over, his main rivals, Edmund and Ronald, kept teasing him and overall made pests of themselves.

 The following spring, Vlad never eased up on teasing Ronald. It was a pay-back. He needled Ronald all the way home, after school. Finally, Ronald had become full of Vlad's irritating and pushed Vlad into a ditch that was full of freezing water. Vlad took it, with laughter. He knew that he was being no better than Ronald by jeering at him and so, he felt that, in a way, he deserved being cooled off.

 Not too long after the first dunking, Ronald got it into his head to bug Vlad again. Vlad was in a rotten mood that day, and learning from Ronald, dunk him in some water; practically at the same spot where Ronald had dunk him. Vlad had told Ronald to piss off several times. Ronald used that phrase as an excuse to dunk Vlad once more. Realising that Vlad did nothing to him after the first time, he felt as id he was given a personal right by Vlad to do it whenever he pleased. Vladimir was extremely angered by the second dunking and later did give Ronald some rights. Mostly across his face, subsequently breaking his nose in three places.

 The usual parental problems followed causing much of, what was said to be, an embarrassment for Vlad's folks. Ronald's father, Mr. Pierce, told the Peplohs that they should put their son in a cage with other animals.

 The memories of his childhood years in Manitoba were now conscious within his mind. He began to hear the music that he was playing in composition. That symphonic resolves had coincided with his return to reality from the hidden Id within him.

 Vlad listened to the closing chord that he made ring from the keyboard and he sustained it until not a sound was heard in the basement.

 He switched off the tape recorder and rubbed his eyes. He was tired from his long trip, back into his childhood. He recalled every detail of the imagery that had passed through his mind just now, and he smiled to himself at the memory of bashing Ronald's nose into his face. Never again did Vlad ever participate in any kind of a brawl. As a child he saw the damage that he could do by being violent and he decided that he didn't really enjoy hurting people, anyway.

 The door of the basement clicked and soon Vlad's mother made her way down carrying a bundle of dirty laundry. She walked across the rug to the door of the laundry room and gazed coldly at him. "I hope you finish'd down here!" she began, in that guttural Hungarian accent of hers. "We can't here us 'tink upstairs. You 'chould learn to play some'ting nice-a polka like 'LaPaloma Blanca', maybe!"

 Vlad scrunched up his face and he closed his eyes, in a repulsed manner. Under his breath could be heard just one word.

 "Shit!" he said.

 His mother shook her head in disgust and went into the laundry room.

 While he waited for her to leave the basement again, Vlad slowly played another tune. It was a favourite of his and was one of the first tunes that he learned to play by reading musical notes. The tune was Beethoven's 'Fur Elise'.

 With each measure that he progressed, he played the piece faster and faster.

 Finally, his mother showed herself into the recreation room, once more, and she listened to him play for a moment. She swung her head to and fro and had a finger swinging in the air, as well.

 "Now 'dat's nice musica!" she said.

 Vlad made a few mistakes when she spoke and with great frustration, he banged down on the keyboard and expelled an angered quantity of breath.

 "You stupid, in 'da head, you know!" his mother grinded at him.

 "Go upstairs!" he demanded of her with an underlying 'please', gurgled at the end of it.

 She huffed out of the basement and Vlad took his forehead in the palms of his hands and bellowed a few times, as if he were praying in a Judaic manner.

 "Why can't we just get along? Why?" Vlad mumbled to himself then stopped his half-bowing action.

 He looked down at the clean white keys that were off-set by the absorbing black ones. They were regular and consistent, so Vlad had observed, and they never complained about anything unless the ones who played them required it.

 There was a faint, hollow thump when Vlad closed the cover over them.

 He heard some noise coming from the television, upstairs in the livingroom. His father was home from work and was watching 'Hogan's Heroes', and Vlad could also hear his mother putting him down for it.

 Vlad disliked that attitude his mother had, immensely. If his father wanted to watch a shlocky show, that was his prerogative. Vlad was thinking of watching, too. He desperately needed to laugh right now but the way that he felt, all that he could probably come up with would be a half-assed smirk, and he didn't want that.

 The room was quiet. Only ambient noise filtered-in from the outside. Listening to it almost made Vlad feel in pain, all over and he couldn't stand it. He stood up and away from the piano bench that seemed to sigh in relief.

 What could he do, was a question going through his mind. Supper wouldn't be ready for another hour and he truly didn't feel like going upstairs to wait. Television was out of the question for him and he didn't have enough time to go anywhere, and he back in times to eat.

 Vlad started to have thoughts of suicide. This wasn't the first time that he bore such thoughts. In University, every day that had gone by had witnessed Vlad's consideration of such a thing, but always there was something keeping him from doing it. Unfinished work that he didn't want to leave, as such; the future parties that he wanted to attend and thoughts of wanting a woman for a long term relationship all seemed to be deterring him from going through with anything final.

 By the time that Vlad was in his second year of University, he had written down a list of ways that people have used, and could use, to kill themselves. His list was some ninety pages in length and not only did his own life, but also described all the results of each of the methods.

 Vlad noticed that most of the methods were messy and he didn't want to feel the personal embarrassment of having someone clean it up afterwards. He also didn't want anyone to put themselves out to make a tasteful funeral or, what's worse, to have someone to give a hypocritical eulogy about him. The thought of that made him feel the worst because he knew that there was no living person that knew how he really was. Henry would possibly come close but Vlad knew that the chances of Henry eulogising would be slim.

 So much for morbidity, he thought. He was depressed, already, and he didn't care to make it worse than it was.

 He took a record album from the rack and plopped it down on the stereo turntable, which sat on a stand just beside the couch.

 Headphones were already plugged into the machine and Vlad placed them over his head and ears, before he turned on the machine and laid down on the couch.

 The record popped and hissed from the dust on its surface, but it didn't make much of a difference to Vlad. He had bought the record in a used record shop and it had always sounded bad.

 It was one of those cheap records advertised on television, that compiled pop-hits from different rock bands and individuals, and this particular one spanned the 1960's and 1970's.

 He closed his eyes just as Simon and Garfunkle's 'El Condor Pasa' began to play. Vlad could totally identify with that song. It had a nice, but depressing little tune and the words drove-home the feelings of inadequacy that he's been trained to believe were within himself, ever since he started going to school. This song always reminded Vlad of the false idea; 'strive for perfection', that was drilled into young school children by both family and educators. He was totally aware that there was no such thing as perfection; save, maybe, Good. The only perfection that he knew about was the kind that happens when an individual tries to do his best at something, and is just happy with his results. That is all. There was nothing more, and certainly nothing less. Times like these saved Vlad from personal destruction; this is what Vlad believed. He released himself from the conscious world again and let himself drift back into the more comfortable safety of the past, and his dreams.

 He remembered the move that his family made to the big city. Winnipeg wasn't a megalopolis or anything but to a small boy of only ten years, it was like being transported to another planet.

 His parents had taken him to Winnipeg several times before but Vlad had to accept the fact that, that city was now his home.

 Vlad didn't mind visiting Winnipeg. That was fine. However, now he to come to grips with living there.

 School became much tougher that he had known, not very far away, in Loretta. The classes were much bigger and the teachers were all sterner, more bitchy, and apathetic towards the children in their charge. Life was never the same for Vlad after he moved away from the town in which he grew-up. He left behind so much in that town; some fairly good friends, Laurette (his first love), and some enemies that kept life interesting. What he missed the most was his own little chunk of power.

 In this big city school, Vlad was now the new kid in class. All the children stared at him with huge unsure eyes that announced to him that he wasn't accepted. That hurt him severely. He was used to a certain respect that he attained in Loretta and now, it was as if he were standing naked before them.

 It was quite a long time before some of the kids were relaxed enough in his presence to introduce themselves. The first one of the children to talk with Vlad was a short and chubby little Chinese boy called Irving Cho.

 One of the things that was pretty amazing, at the time, was Vlad's automatic acceptance of Irving's different appearance. Vlad saw oriental people on television but he never had thought that they were real. Now, he had seen that there were such people and yet, they were still people. What was also amazing, was his attachment to Irving's cousin, Leslie Kwan. She was the colour of abalone, unlike the jaundiced-tint of Irving's skin. Here eyes were large, and black, as was her hair, which framed her face to look like a Rubin's masterpiece.

 Vlad never played the same games or the same way with these city children, as he did with those in Loretta.

 He could see that he couldn't be as domineering or as free to play with the girls, as he was accustomed to. More time was spent in rugged activities which he didn't particularly enjoy. He joined-in on those just to become more quickly accepted into the group of the tough and trail-blazing boys.

 Several weeks after his introduction by the Vice-Principal to his home-room class, Vlad was finally asked to join in the recess soccer playing. He knew that Irving had something to do with it and silent appreciation was acknowledged, and understood, between them both.

 Like out of some fairy tale, Vlad soared to greatness after the first game that he played. Within the first few minutes of playing against another fifth grade class, Vlad scored three goals. As an immediate reward, he was allowed to rest by playing the coveted position of team goalie. Here, again, Vlad did great, not letting a single ball into his net and so helping to win, for his class, their first shut-out game. After recess was over and everyone had left their jackets and muddy boots in the cloakroom, the other boys that were long in accepting Vlad, huddled around him praising his good job and ability, vying for possession of his talents, for a future game.

 Some of the girls began to look at him differently, too, but Vlad still realised that there was a pecking order to which he had to adhere.

 Nevertheless, Vlad became fairly comfortable with most of the children and he made good friends. One such friend was the regarded top-guy, in the class.

 That boy introduced himself one day in a very cool manner. It was direct and it totally revealed the type of person that he was.

 "My name is Paddy O'Ryan."

 " I wish that I would've had the chance to play earlier!" said Vlad. He was trying, modestly, to accept what was now happening with his own acceptance within the class.

 "You should've asked." said Irish but Vlad shook his head in defiance. "Well, we got you now, and we'll keep you!"

 "Thanks!" was all that Vlad had said.

 Over the remainder of the year Vlad began to relax more and more, and tried less to impress those of his piers from whom he so desperately needed acceptance. Summer was soon approaching and Vlad was making plans with some of his new friends to spend most of their time in the park, or else bike up to the lake a couple of times a week, and having nice day long picnics.

 However, when summer finally arrived, many of the children went to camp or on vacation with their folks.

 Vlad only saw a couple of people but only during the first couple of weeks in July. Within the first week of the summer break, Irish was in the park with Vlad and they were climbing trees and other such things that boys of their age did. It was a sudden thing that happened and for a long time Vlad could not understand what had happened.

 Irish had a sudden flare-up of appendix and he fell out of the tree in which he was playing. He hit the ground and then went unconscious. When Vlad saw what had happened, he jumped out of his tree and ran for the Mountie that he saw patrolling the pathway, about a hundred yards away. Irish was taken to the hospital, in a hurry, and had fortunately survived. His appendix was safely removed but he had to stay in the hospital for quite a while because, when he fell, he broke his jaw and had dislocated his shoulder.

 For the next few weeks of the summer, Vlad spent his time with Irving's cousin, Leslie. He liked her and was trying to get her to like him, too. They played in the park and went to see some matinee movies at the theatre. A few times, they went on a day-long biking picnic to the lake. They watched the boats on the lake from a ridge that overlooked a good part of it all and Vlad managed to steal a kiss from her, a few times. He would chase after her through the thickets of the woods then corner her up against a tree. He wouldn't let her go unless she gave him a kiss. She never complained.

 He didn't do it too often, however. Although he really did like Leslie, he could never get his real love, Laurette, out of his mind. He always hoped that playing with Leslie would help him to forget. It worked. Within a few days with her, he realised that it was Leslie that he truly liked, now.

 Sometime before the beginning of August, the Fates once again conspired against Vlad to rip form him one of the few things that gave his life meaning and purpose. The last few days of July was his last few days with Leslie. By the 27th, Leslie had moved to Vancouver, with her parents. There was never any mention that this would happen; there was never a good-bye. He tried to play it cool and behave like some adult but, inside, he felt really bad. He felt even more depressed seeing that she was really excited about going to the fair with him. It never happened.

 Every day Vlad walked to the corner to the post office. Every day he checked the mail, as a favour to his parents. He was waiting for a letter from Leslie. She never did write, even though she knew the address. He couldn't write to her because he did not know where, in Vancouver, she had moved.

 The rest of the summer was boring and after school started again, he didn't see his regular friends as often since they were put into different home-rooms. Vlad felt like he was having to start all over again and this time he saw that it was worse. This time, even the teacher was spiteful towards him. She never gave him a moment's peace.

 He was lonely and didn't enjoy recess, very much, anymore. All he wanted to do was sit in the classroom during the breaks, but his teacher refused to have her space invaded during recesses and threw him out of the classroom. One day she had even begun to make a big deal, in front of the class, of Vlad wanting to stay in the class.

 Vlad had enough from her. In anger, he told her to shut up and leave him alone.

 The teacher was incensed. She had ordered him to the front of the class and drew-forth the strap, which was kept in her bottom desk drawer. Before the entire class, she whacked Vlad's outstretched hands until they shone with a rosy blush. On top of the punishment she screamed at him, calling him a 'dirty little gypsy' and a 'stupid Hungarian'.

 By some strange coincidence the Principal had entered the classroom just as the verbal abuse was taking place, but nothing was ever resolved. Vlad was sent out into the hallway and spent a full week sitting out there, at a portable desk. The teacher could not look at him, was the reason. Later, it was revealed that the teacher hated Hungarians. Her ex-husband was a Hungarian; running off with a girl twenty years younger than himself. It was all such a clich&#381;.

 At home Vlad was beaten, yet again. He had to learn to respect the authority of the teachers. He would no longer shame his parents in the eyes of the school. He remembered that his mother had always taken some strange pleasure in his punishment.

 Why was he remembering all this, now? It was the old-fashioned type of fly swatter that was rubber, stuck-onto a twisted metal handle-the rubber swatter always, and unnoticeably, flew off the handle during his punishment.

 Vlad's life was one of unexpected turmoil, at every turn. When they all moved from Loretta to Winnipeg, his brothers decided to move to Ontario.

 It was on New Year's Day, in 1970, that his brothers had convinced his folks to move out there, too. By the summer time there was yet another move. Now it was to Kitchener, Ontario.

 Vlad had a hard time adjusting to life in Kitchener. In his life, he had never expected such a different change in the way that his environment looked and subsequently behaved.

 Readjustment to the life in Ontario took longer than it did in Winnipeg, for Vlad. There was not a single person that he met through his parents, or brothers, that was not self-centred or snobby towards them. Even their children seemed to be like they were, looking down at everyone, actually trying to find fault with them.

 El Condor Pasa had ended and the machine was playing the ending of it, over and over again, since the tone-arm's needle was permanently stuck on a continuous grove, undoubtedly caused by a skip that happened to the previous owner.

 Vlad laid there and listened to it. Sometimes the needle skipped into the next song, by itself, but it seemed to be steadfast this time.

 Some of the cartilage in his joints cracked and snapped when he got off the couch to reset the tone-arm on the next song.

 Soon, the song was beginning to play. It wasn't a great tune but it was easy-listening and it was rock and roll, too. He wanted to listen to some rock that was quiet in nature and not hostile and raunchy. He didn't particularly like some of the pop-groups. He wasn't hot on Judas Priest, AC-DC or Elton John-whose 'Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me', started to play. That song reflected his mood, absolutely.

 Whenever Vlad's moods changed, so did the music that he listened to. The music that he composed during his different moods was also diverse. A listener would be given the impression that totally different personalities composed each of the pieces that Vlad devised. That was either a blessing or a curse on him, and as of yet, he didn't know which.

 There was no need for light down there with him, so he got up for a moment and turned off the pole light. The basement's dimness suited his mood fine, now. There were very few distractions to keep him from reflecting on his ill-fortune life.

 He thought: 'Everyone has to suffer through life. Every generation goes through hardships of one sort or another, and all are severest to the individual that cares them. Some live through physical pain and others suffer through mental or emotional pain.'. The song was beginning to make its way right into the essence of his mind and he reclined on the couch, once more.

 Reflecting upon his life to this day, had him feel more depressed than he had ever been. Escaping into the realms of subconscious thought, no longer helped him to deal with the reality of his life. It was, in all fact, that was little strength, that he had left, was being sapped from him.

 It was even in his semi-conscious states that he had realised that he never did fully have control of his life. Being the leader of a pack of boys on the prairie wasn't really being a leader, much less being in control. Outside forces always seemed to have a 'one-up' on Vlad, and it always came in the form of adults and elitists, telling him what to do, whenever the feeling inspired them. His life was as such, very similar to a slow and very painful death. It seemed to be torturous and totally under the sadistic control of outsiders. Vlad felt like his anus had been surgically closed-off and that he was being force-fed by each, and every, living individual on the earth. Within him, his guts actually began to ache from such thoughts and he wondered if he were going mad.

 He remembered feeling a similar way back in 1970, when his family moved to Ontario. He didn't know a single soul and he thought that he would go mad then.

 To keep his mind off his loneliness, Vlad learned to use the transit system and he ended up going to the city's core, a few times week, to a shop that sold pianos. After almost having to plead to the store manager, on his knees, he got permission to come to the shop whenever he liked and play on the pianos in the store-room. By this time, Vlad had been playing the piano for seven years and he didn't want to miss-out on practising, since he liked to play.

 His folks had bought a baby-grand in Manitoba when Vlad was five years old, but it wasn't bought for Vlad. That beautiful little piano was bought to decorate the livingroom, and more or less, served as a status symbol.

 Vlad had been given a licking after sitting at the piano and trying to play it. He knew that he wasn't supposed to touch it because it took a long time to polish, and his mother wanted to keep it shining.

 Eventually, however, Vlad was permitted to play the piano when his folks realised that the whipping that he was getting didn't stop him. When they all moved east, the piano and a great deal of other stuff remained. By this time Vlad had already taught himself to play the great instrument, even from notated music.

 The piano shop soon appreciated Vlad's presence in the back room. They kept the doors open and the people who came into the store, just to look around, were inspired by Vlad's playing, and had bought pianos.

 Vlad was never paid for his contribution to the sales upswing that the piano shop had, during the times that he played.

 It wasn't until Christmas of 1970 that the shop manager arranged a deal with his supervisors to give Vlad a brand new, upright, Horner piano.

 If ever anything good happened to Vlad, it was the day that he was given that Horner, and the recollection of that day had managed to revive him to quite a degree. The Elton John tune was fading and through his headphones Vlad heard his mother's perpetually nasty sounding voice, ordering him to come upstairs for supper.

 

 

 CHAPTER THREE

 This evening's supper was superb, and quiet for a change. Vlad had always found fault in his parents-his mother, in particular-but one strength that he did acknowledge in her, was the fact that she was a great cook and domestic.

 He wondered if other Canadianised ethnic women were still spending their time every day cooking for the family and, also, cleaning up after them. His vision of many of them, like many of his mother's friends that he had met, was that of groups of at and hairy women marinating infront of their television sets every day, watching soap operas. When he talked to his oldest brother about this disease of television, he was told that their own mother had watched countless hours of such television, during the first couple years of living in Canada.

 Ivan, the oldest of the Peplohs' five sons had told Vlad the story about the family making it out of Hungary, just before the Soviet Union moved in to stop the revolution that was taking place.

 The conditions for living in Hungary had become so bad and unsure that there were many people who left the country by any means that they had available to them.

 There were quite a few people that had secretly crossed the border into Austria, with the help of a soviet resistance group that operated within the communist block, after the soviets had moved in and put a stop to emigration.

 The Peplohs were one of the luckier families, however, managing to get passports, visas and other such permission papers from the government before it was toppled.

 The greater majority of Europeans that had come to Canada, following World War II, were resettled in the emptier parts of Canada, like the prairies and the north-west. The more prosperous provinces of Canada, such as British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec, took in immigrants that were usually British, French and German. These few nationalities seemed to be regarded more highly than people that were Baltic, Slav, Oriental, or Latino. Of course, there were exceptions; anybody of higher social or financial status (regardless from what country they hailed), were welcomed to Canada's classier provinces.

 Any way that immigration was looked at, all those who entered Canada were automatically labelled as DP's by the Canadians. Those poorer immigrants were called the 'displaced people', whereas the more wealthy and accepted ones were called the 'dear people'.

 Either way, most newcomers learned to deal with their new lives here, and helped to make Canada the wealthy and respected country that it had become. These stories always interested Vlad and he wondered how he would fare if he were forced to change countries and lifestyles.

 His folks learned English by watching television and reading the Canadian newspapers. Would he learn the culture and language of his new home-country in that way, or would he be lucky, like Henry Olfusen, and have someone teach him?

 Thinking about things like these, at times, Vlad realised that the generation gap was a reality that was breaking down his home family structure. There was no understanding between his parents and himself, but he also realised that this was not something unique. Many families had suffered, and still do suffer, through painful gaps in communication between the individuals within the family. One day, he will be on better terms with his folks. He knew that, for sure. When his other four brothers lived with them, there was never a quiet moment and if there were, it meant that someone wasn't on speaking terms. However, since every single one of his brothers had moved away and started up their own families, they have been able to speak better with the folks. It is just that, now, Vlad had to live through the cliched life of 'familiarity breeds contempt'.

 Supper had been eaten and some time had quietly passed.

 Vlad was in his bedroom, lying atop the bed, flipping through his 'Music of Man' book and listening to a cassette on his small tape recorder.

 He was reading about Mozart and what a prodigy he was; playing the piano like a virtuoso, at five years of age and composing his first symphony at the age of seven.

 There were many times when Vlad believed that he could have been alike to Mozart, but these times were different. Genii weren't really appreciated unless they were also from families that were in the fifty thousand dollar-a-year (plus), tax bracket. One day; one day he thought, he'd like to change the system to one of mutual respect between individuals and their unique abilities. The only ones that would be scorned would be those individuals who never tried to achieve their ultimate in life but even some of these would be helped to see the importance of self worth.

 Simon and Garfunkel's song, BOOKENDS, fizzed through the cheap speaker and was lost in the corners of the room. Vlad let the book that he was leafing through, to slip out of his hands and infront of him. Relaxing on his stomach, Vlad set his face down on the surface of the bed and drifted-off into another level of consciousness, the same level that he had reached earlier in the evening. His psyche passed into another retrospective about his life. The song had hit a sad chord within his heart when he began to envision the very first girl with whom he's ever been in love. Vlad knew the girl when he was twelve and he had remembered his time with her as being the happiest of his youth, and also the saddest. Kelly was a year younger than Vlad was and he had met her within days of moving to Kitchener with his folks. In fact, she had lived in the same apartment building that he moved into, on Courtland Avenue, in the summer of 1970.

 It was early in June of that year and Vlad wasn't registered in any of the local schools for the remaining month, since he had been given an early pass from the school that he attended in Winnipeg. They met on the fifth floor exit stairs one Sunday morning when Vlad decided to explore the building. Lacking anything else to do, and since he was bored with sitting around the apartment, he asked permission of his parents to leave.

 Vlad ran up the stairwell from the second floor, on which he lived and almost ran right over her. He wasn't looking where he was going and the girl was almost as stunned as he was, when he came upon her.

 They stared at one another for quite a long while and at first, they never said anything.

 Vlad looked right into her bottomless, sapphire-blue eyes, and he watched her naturally platinum-blonde hair, glowing around her face when the sun shone-in through the window and over her.

 In somewhat of a defensive manner the girl smiled and this warmed Vlad, inside, and he smiled back at her.

 "Hi!" he said to her.

 "Hi!" she echoed him.

 "My name is Vlad Peploh-I live down on two." Vlad pointed back the way he came, thrusting his dirty thumb through the air and over the shoulder.

 "I'm Kelly. I'm from three." she responded.

 They looked at one another some more, waiting for the other to continue talking abut whatever, and finally Kelly continued.

 "Vlad! That's a strange name?" she wondered out loud while she stared at him. "What's it stand for?"

 "I use it as a short form of Vladimir. It's Hungarian." Vlad informed her and proceeded. "It's supposed to mean, let's see . . . the translation would be 'the victor'-I guess!"

 "That's strange!" she said to him and saw his face lose part of its smile. "But it's nice, too!"

 Vlad felt good again and tried some more to break the necessary tension that seemed to be between them. "My middle name is even stranger!" he said. "It's Xavier, and I never use it."

 "Are you new here?"

 Vlad responded to Kelly's question by nodding his head.

 "I got in from Winnipeg a little over a week ago." he said, then carried on. "You're the first person that I've met around here and I'm sure glad that you're nice. You're pretty, too."

 Kelly blushed a little bit and she looked him over once, before expressing a similar opinion about him.

 "What are you doing running up the stairs?" Kelly wondered.

 "I wanted to go up to the eighth floor window and see what this city looks like." he answered her. "Do you sit on these stairs often?"

 "Not too often, but sometimes when I want to be alone and just sit around and think." Vlad had thought that her answer was a hint for him to leave. When he offered to leave her alone and talk to her some other time, she patted the space on the steps beside her asking him to stay.

 "You can sit alone with me and help me think."

 "I'd like that!" Vlad accepted and he, and Kelly, sat in quiet for a while looking at the sun's rays coming in through the window and hitting the floor. Occasionally they'd look at one another and smile.

 Not every long after Vlad sat down he put his hand on her shoulder, causing her to blush again, and he saw her smile at him once more.

 "What are you thinking about, Kelly?" he asked of her.

 "Well, before you showed up I was thinking about school and when it'll finally be over. Now, I'm thinking about what life is like in Winnipeg." The answer inspired Vlad to begin talking about himself and he left out very few things that have happened to him, since his birth.

 When he was finally finished, an hour later, Kelly told him as much as she could about herself. In the several hours that had passed, sitting on the step, there grew between them a nice friendship and one of mutual respect. Over the rest of the month of June, Kelly and Vlad met on various steps, in the stairwell, and grew to like one another-very much.

 Just as in his earlier days back in Manitoba, playing games with girls that involved realism (including the occasional kiss), Vlad began to kiss with Kelly.

 Their kissing, however, was not one of just playing kids' games, but in all actuality involved a genuine feeling between them.

 With each successive day that passed by, the two pre-teens searched out the most private places that they could find and spent hours hugging and smooching, when they weren't talking.

 There was never anyone in Vlad's life, before or after Kelly, that he knew better or liked more. He did have best friends, throughout his life, and he knew enough girls, too, but never did he experience quite a relationship as the one that he shared with Kelly.

 Vlad was looking forward to a whole summer with Kelly. She was turning twelve a few days before school was over and he was officially going to become a teenager, less than a month later. He and Kelly made plans, promising one another all manner of happiness, such as: that they'd stay together throughout junior highschool, on through to highschool and continue to college, or to university. Ultimately, Kelly promised Vlad that, once they were grown up, she would marry him.

 Vlad wanted to believe that the promises would soon be fulfilled. He saw that Kelly's looks were beginning to change. She was improving, and he had noticed that the little buds that she had in her blouse were beginning to blossom at quite a speedy rate.

 He had also noticed a great change in himself. He began to feel more strongly towards Kelly, wanting to spend even more time with her, than he was already. He had strange sensations that he had never had before, and he had dreams about Kelly that he couldn't explain except by telling himself that he loved her.

 Then came one day in late June, a few days after Kelly's birthday when Vlad's parents told him that his mother, brother Alexis and himself were to go to Hungary for a holiday, within the week. Vlad was half excited and half depressed because he would be away from Kelly for six weeks, but they promised to one another that they'd spend as much time as they could together, when he came back.

 The dreams and plans made by the youngsters, were never allowed to come to pass, however. When Vlad had finally returned to Kitchener, in late August, Kelly's folks moved out of the apartment building and he had never seen, nor heard, from Kelly again. He had asked his father about details of the move and also asked if Kelly left something for him (a letter, note or anything), and he told Vlad that she had but he couldn't remember where he left it.

 The moving away of his beautiful little Kelly had changed his life drastically and he never forgave his father for misplacing the letter. Maybe it was her new forwarding address, or maybe it was a good-bye note. Either way, Vlad had ached for months after he came back from Hungary, and found her gone.

 Several months into school, he was in a daze, not able to do anything right or even able to talk with anyone. It wasn't until the Halloween sock-hop at the Courtland Senior Public School, that Vlad began to get over Kelly. He danced with new girls and started talking with some of the guys from his different classes, and throughout it all, keeping his early days, and his feelings for Kelly, solely to himself.

 It was exactly this was even to the present day. No one but he had known about Kelly, even though he did reveal his life in Manitoba to some new best friends during his teenage life. Naturally, they totally disbelieved him.

 There was a distant sound of raunchy but heart-breaking music. There was a voice that crackled and sounded as if the singer were trying to hold back the world's own miseries.

 'CRY BABY', was now banging its way through the speaker of the dusty tape machine, drawing and quartering, not only his heart, but also his soul.

 A tear issued from his eyes as he became conscious of Janis Joplin's voice, which bore itself right into the core of his brain, and turning it off just as Janis was reaching the climax of her song.

 Without warning, the door of his room banged-open and his mother rushed in screaming at him to turn the crazy-man's music off because she and his father were ready to go to bed. Vlad sat up quickly, his heart beating faster than a pulsar star and he felt his face was growing hot and his body brokeout in a slimy sweat.

 "Don't you ever run into this room, like that, again!" he hollered at his mother as he gave her a cold and hateful stare.

 Nothing seemed to bother her, though. She continued to bitch at him about not doing anything all day except lie around or play the piano. She even went as far as calling Vlad a bum.

 With this, Vlad rushed off his bed and passed her, making his way to the basement, and the piano.

 He slammed the door to the basement and huffed over to the upright, and plopped himself down on the bench, hearing it groan beneath him.

 He lifted the cover from the keyboard and began to pound away a tune that sounded violent and frustrated until he suddenly reached a peak then stopped. He began to play some tune that was gentle and delicate, and the tune appeared to be a part of the beginning chaos, starting simultaneously with the hurricane ending of the first tune.

 This new tune continued into a quieter and more distant sounding denouement until a final high-note announced the end. Heavy sighs came from him as was his breathing heavily, and he was to a certain extent, having been violently jerked to reality from the antiseptic vaults of retrospect within his mind.

 He watched his hands tremble and he felt his entire body as it joined, in synchronization, to the beating of his heart.

 He stood up from the bench for a moment and took from the compartment within it, a file portfolio with a title, written in bold letters across the front: ONCE A YOUNG LOVER -- a musical by Vladimir Xavier Peploh.

 This was the musical that Vlad had started to write in his finally year at University, and it was shaping up into being one of his best pieces of music. He turned on the cassette taperecorder that he always had sitting on top of the piano, like some old west tramp, and began to play the overture that he wrote.

 The music was good, and Vlad new it. His greatest wish was that others would soon acknowledge it, in the same way.

 He never got a chance to finish it over the summer, since he had run out of money, and spent most of his time job-searching. It was a crazy summer, and Vlad hadn't the time to write more than just a few pages of music, during it all.

 The days had trolled along and he couldn't even get a possible position with the local symphony. That would have, at the very least, given him a place to start, even though it was a small group, and he thought that most of the musicians acquired their talent from a box of cracker-jacks. Still, he would've settled on working for them until he could prove his own talents and abilities, and then possibly be allowed to work with them, in improvements.

 Vlad had visions of being able to carry them through some of his musical pieces, as their conductor. All these visions were accompanied by a great audience response to his appearance before the crowds, as a professional musician.

 He could see the entire public responding positively towards ONCE A YOUNG LOVER, since he would be able, for the first time, to tell the world about the love that he once had for Kelly.

 While he wrote the musical, those who had seen parts of it, and heard same, tried their hardest to put down whatever they could about it. Any little error was blown-out-of-proportion, but even though this considerably annoyed Vlad, he was able to perfect the tunes. His colleagues' taunting criticisms helped him more, than it did to hurt him.

 He had one music professor, in University, who seemed to help Vlad to a considerable degree. Most of the help was just lending Vlad an ear when he had something to complain about but, also, he looked over Vlad's music and encouraged him to carry-on. Only once did the professor remark negatively towards Vlad, and that was the day that Vlad was telling him about how he would like to see his musical produced at the O'Keefe Centre, in Toronto, and other such places.

 "Someone can be a musical genius, Vlad!" his professor had begun to tell him. "But, if you don't have the right connections, you'll end up playing in bars. There's stiff competition, out in the real world, and dreaming about making it, just isn't enough."

 At first, Vlad was upset about what was told to him, but now he realised that there was a measure of truth in those words.

 He didn't agree with them, but that wasn't the point of the professor telling him that thing. What the professor did want to do was give Vlad some amount of confidence and self-initiative, without making Vlad turn into an egomaniac.

 He was now playing back the tape of what he had just recorded and listened through all of it. There were some changes to be made, obviously, but it was a good musical.

 Everything that Vlad had experienced in life, or knew about life, and about music, he put into this musical. It was to be his first masterpiece -- whenever he would be able to complete it. Right now, it wasn't doing anybody any good, least of all, him. Although he had missed-out on inspiration, for a long time now, Vlad was determined to finish this project. It has kept him tied down for too long and it was beginning to work-him-over like a nagging wife works-over a weak husband.

 "I love you, but enough, is enough!" Vlad said to his music as he stared right at the musical notes, for solo piano, then closed his portfolio and shut off the tape recorder.

 It was nearing 10:30 p.m. and Vlad thought that it would be a good idea if he went to bed. He could then tackle the rest of his music with a clear head, and a hopefully fresh attitude, in the morning.

 Vlad decided to stay down in the basement for a few more minutes before he finally went to bed. He turned off most of the lights except for the light over the stereo and he commenced to slowly play.

 He listened to each and every note that his fingers caused, to create the music that he played from memory. Beethoven's 'Moonlight Sonata', was his favourite tune, remembering it as far back as his childhood, in Manitoba.

 He played the tune quite often, usually on lonely nights like these. It sometimes even worried him, that if he were to find another love some day, he would cease to play this tune, forever. He was a part of a universal reality; an individual caught up in a personal vacuum, unable to get out and even more unable to let anyone else in.

 At times he even sympathised with the loneliness that God may sometimes feel. Maybe even the loneliness that he felt, which inspired him to create all those things that were apart from his initial existence.

 Upstairs, Vlad's mother was banging down on the floor heating vents. It was her own very special, and intrusive, way to rip his mind to shreds. Vlad had, nevertheless, continued to play unhindered, as if he didn't even hear her, then after he finished the piece he closed the keyboard cover, slumped over and cried.

 

 

 CHAPTER FOUR

 Several more weeks had passed and Vlad still had not found himself a job.

 His emotions were in a choppy state of flux and he had a difficult time handling anything that was put forth to him, including controlling his natural bodily functions. He had been rising early every morning. He worked on ONCE A YOUNG LOVER, straight through for hours until he couldn't stand it any more, and so breaking down to eat, or to go to the bathroom.

 With a his hard work, on his musical, which was the only task that he had his way with, he had caused himself to become chronically tired, as-well-as constipated.

 His life was truly irregular now and it was a fortunate stroke of luck that his friend, Tony, had called him and suggested that they have some coffee at Henry's.

 Tony was the same age as Vlad, but it appeared that Tony's mind stopped developing, at the natural rate, during highschool. Now, that's not saying that Tony was mentally retarded - he wasn't. He did, however, display a general lack of confidence and self-initiative. Tony had, what's called, an inferiority complex.

 Vlad never exerted much authority over him realising that he needed to be given the chance to lead, in anything at all, even if it was just a conversation about whatever topic came into his mind. Tony was a bright and clever guy in highschool, as he remained throughout the Armed Forces Academy, where he studied structural engineering, more or less, successfully. He knew lots of things but once he was asked to explain something, or was tested on something else, he would break down in confidence and forget all that he knew.

 Vlad wished that he could help Tony overcome his problem but there were only so many hours in the day, and Vlad couldn't look for work, write music and apply therapy on Tony, all-at-once.

 There were some remarkable things about Tony, too. He had plenty of friends and he knew many girls, even introducing some to Vlad. Oddly enough, Tony stuttered and acted panicked when he was confronted by some real beauty, or even an ordinary pretty girl, but for some reason it didn't seem to matter much to them.

 Vlad was the one that exuded confidence, could intelligently converse with anyone about any topic, had a glamorous career that he wanted to enter into, and yet with all this, not many girls seemed to go for him. This he couldn't understand and when he was in highschool his heart almost shattered when none of the girls, that he had asked, would go out with him. University was much the same. Each successive year that came and went, he retreated further into his retrospective subconscious and clung to his youth back in Loretta, and the memory of his first love, Kelly. He had always wanted to disregard his belief that his lower financial status had something to do with not being able to find a good girl. He never had a car, or ever had enough money to take a girl out, properly. These factors didn't seem to be right, in his eyes.

 Vlad saw many cute and attractive girls dating guys that they considered 'hunks', and yet these same guys had the appearance of shaved gorillas, with acne. Vlad remembered making fun of them one day, with Tony. Those guys walked down the hallways of the school, as if they had coconuts bolted to their underarms. What's more, when they were ridiculed, they slinked away like amoebas, never daring to challenge these opinions of them.

 'There was no accounting for taste', Vlad remembered the old clich&#381;. Life was a clich&#381;d play, and a tragic-comedy, at that.

 Beethoven, Mozart and Handel would've loved this day and age. They would've had such a hay-day, composing masterpieces, since they would have so much life material from which to draw.

 If those men had though that they lived through strange, hypocritical times, they would have a marvellous time now, in 1981.

 'This must all be part of life?', was a line in Vlad's musical, sung by the hero of the story, when an oriental girlfriend of his sent to him a 'Dear John' letter and included for him an old oriental curse: 'may you live in interesting times'. Following that incident, the hero contemplates suicide, again and again (every time that a girl leaves him), and then decided against it when another girl comes into his life. Although Vlad, himself was a Severist and a Pessimist, he always acknowledged within his music that there was always something in life, worth living.

 That last point-of-view was truly his own, or so he thought. Nevertheless, that attitude probably reflected his Hungarian heritage rather than the attitude of someone who was a native of Canada. Canadians, apparantly most of them, nearly always have been apathetic towards everything. That was even known as 'the Canadian Attitude' and was started back when the country was young, and ready to confederate.

 John A. MacDonald asked the provinces, 'Do you want to confederate?'. The answer most commonly was, 'We don't care... do what you want to do!' Later-on they added, 'sorry, eh?' That attitude continued on to this day, but at least Canada had been consistent. With such consistency, Vlad admitted that he would rather live in Canada than anywhere else, even though this place did have many faults.

 Vlad and Tony had met at Henry's Coffee Bar at around one o'clock. It was a Saturday, so neither one was in much of a hurry to go anywhere nor did they want to do anything that was of any great importance.

 It was still cold out, but they didn't care. At least the sun was out in the sky and it helped them to look on the brighter side of their existence, which had seemed mundane, if it were anything. They spent several hours talking about various things.

 They hadn't seen one another for over a month because Tony had gone on a vacation to Florida then spent some time with relatives in Pennsylvania on his way back. He even took some really interesting photos of Three Mile Island, giving Vlad an eight by ten enlargement print, as a present.

 Vlad appreciated the gift, but he appreciated even more, the story that Tony told him about his first sexual experience while in Daytona. Vlad thought that it was a fantasy.

 Vlad swore that he'd remember one line that Tony had used during his description of his intercourse.

 "Now I know why sandpaper is made of sand!"

 Vlad knew that he had to use it somewhere in ONCE A YOUNG LOVER.

 This was a day similar to other times when Vlad and Tony met for a cup of joe.

 They usually got together on Saturday afternoons, and this was a day of routine fun, like other such days.

 They sat at a side bench at the Coffee Bar and talked between themselves and occasionally with Henry when things didn't get very busy. Vlad had a certain way with Tony that usually made Tony feel better but which made himself feel depressed. Then he proceeded to tell him all his problems, including those new ones that cropped-up.

 In all activity, Vlad and Tony's friendship was like the kind built up between a patient and a psychiatrist, yet much closer.

 Tony listened to Vlad's problems and attempted to advise him on how to rectify them. Sometimes, Tony's advise was pretty good and Vlad used it, but the majority of time all he did was just consider Tony's ideas and nothing more.

 Life took its toll on everybody, in its own unique manner for each individual. It had caused Tony to becomes the way he was and it was preventing Vlad from becoming what he wanted to be. It was a comparative life between these two friends. Vlad's had an adult-like atmosphere during his childhood, which kept all his little friends from really stepping out of the morality line, and now he was suffering through a period of abstention from immorality. It was an abstention that was both forced on him and that he had chosen.

 Tony's experiences weren't as harbinger to life's reality as was Vlad's, and therefore, like most of the young adults in society, over-indulgences in the acts of enjoyment were truly great,.

 Vlad knew Tony fairly well. He had seen Tony when he was introduced to smoking and he saw him become a chain-smoker. Much of the same overindulgence occurred when Tony tried to drink booze, and finally to smoke pot. All of Tony's life was one of upper extremes. He overindulged in everything until he could no longer handle it, and Vlad was beginning to wonder if the same thing would happen to his friend, with sex.

 He was afraid that, the state that Tony's emotional balance and psyche was in, may cause him to achieve his fulfilment through rape. The idea of this eventuality, of which might subsequently cause Tony to become a psychopathic killer, didn't allow Vlad to have peace of mind when he hung around with him. Even if Tony wasn't a direct threat to Vlad, he could still find himself in trouble if Tony did something wrong. Afterall, Vlad knew Tony very well and could warn somebody (the authorities), of any suspicions.

 It was odd, at times, how Vlad's own mind worked.

 He worried too much about those people that were close to him and that he liked, and he couldn't care less for anyone else. Vlad's artistic nature and his deep knowledge of music helped him to realise himself and the environment in which that he lived. Through his personal search for intellectual stability and spiritual unity with life, he was able to curb the persuasive Id within himself, with a powerfully developed superego.

 Often, his superego made him appear to be quite dull and even square, when he was out in public, and especially at parties. It sometimes even seemed as if his superego worked like an Id, lustfully preventing him from entering into debauchery or other such considered evils.

 "People are different. There is no such thing as someone that is normal, for who can say what normal is?"

 That was what Henry had once told Vlad when they talked about Vlad's 'goodie' attitude. Vlad had openly wondered to Henry; was what he was doing, keeping himself clean and celibate, normal. At that point Vlad could no longer reason an answer. He had begun to think that maybe what everyone else was doing, was normal. He watched many guys change girlfriends after screwing with them, and saw that many girls had done the same. Very few people seemed to get hurt. The idea of sticking around and attaching yourself to one particular individual,was too serious for anyone his same age to handle.

 These particular thoughts were in Vlad's mind today and he discussed them with Tony.

 Tony was thinking about these things, too, because he had somehow found religion and was beginning to worry about his overboard behaviours when it came to pleasure.

 He had asked all the same questions that Vlad had asked some time ago, and Vlad gave him all the answers that Henry gave to him.

 Henry was now just standing around and listening to the two young men talking. He was having fun listening to them and he tried to anticipate each and every question and answer that they passed between each other.

 Henry had long been aware that every generation was the same. They all asked the same questions and worried about the same things and always ended up with the same answers. One of the most depressing answers was the realisation that most of the innocent fall prey to evil's temptations without putting up a struggle. In such cases, souls are lost and Henry saw that Tony was worried about such a thing.

 Tony believed that in cases, such as his, no amount of repentance or penance would help to save him.

 Vlad was tired of talking about this and he had told Tony, outright.

 Tony took Vlad's hint and didn't pursue the subject any further. Instead, Tony began to talk about his hopes of becoming an engineer, and travelling to places like South America and Africa, where he would help some big companies in the construction of buildings and bridges.

 "It would give me a great chance to see new places, meet new people, and just do things that I could never do here, in Kitchener." Tony told his friends.

 Vlad knew that Tony was serious about what he wanted to do with his life, but he had reservations about whether or not he'd ever succeed. Even now Vlad couldn't understand, let alone believe, that Tony had received an engineering degree.

 There were times when Vlad noticed that Tony was also unsure of himself., He's been looking for work, related to his training, for as long as Vlad, and possibly even longer.

 Tony was getting to be depressed once again so Vlad reacted towards it in the usual big brother-like manner, whenever he was with him.

 "I wish that I had your problems, Tony!" Vlad told him. "Those I could probably handle, but let me tell you, if you had the problems that I have to endure, you'd never survive. Besides, at least your working part-time, now!"

 Henry overheard the things that Vlad said to Tony, and he didn't particularly approve of Vlad's methods. However, he did notice that Tony responded to it and felt better after Vlad laid his own problems on him. Henry didn't interfere any more when he heard the two men talking. He now understood the way that Tony was and he sometimes even made up personal problems to tell Tony, just to make him feel better.

 Tony needed to be constantly told that someone else always had greater troubles than he did and recently he started to tell himself the same things.

 Tony was starting to acquire self-confidence and eventually, he would be able to handle anything. So that's what Vlad and Henry hoped for him.

 "Would you boys like some more coffee?" Henry interrupted the two and their morbid sounding talk.

 "Thanks!" they answered at the same time.

 Henry poured some more coffee into their styrofoam cups and smiled at them. "Don't you guys talk about anything less depressing?" he asked them.

 Tony laughed a little, as did Vlad.

 "We do, but I sort of find this kind of talk more interesting." Tony answered him.

 "It's like this, Henry." Vlad began. "It's like, well, looking on the brighter side of things, while wearing sunglasses."

 Henry leaned over both of them, a little. He was curious to hear what Vlad was trying to say.

 "Things are all dream-like. Perfect, but with the hint of darkness there, that prevents one from experiencing the ultimate contentment."

 "I like what he said, don't you, Henry?" Tony interrupted Vlad and Henry became a little annoyed, but soon continued.

 "Yet, if one just took the time to do one easy task, and take off his shades, he'd be able to see the world for what it is, and be content!" Vlad finished and he smiled at Henry.

 Henry was taken aback because he's never before heard Vlad say something that was that deep in thought. He also noticed that Vlad was gesticulating with his hands while he spoke, and it reminded him of someone. He cleared his throat and pointed at Vlad for a moment.

 "You wouldn't happen to know my fatherinlaw, would you?" he asked Vlad.

 Vlad didn't know what Henry was getting at, so he just shrugged.

 "My late Penelope's father was a Pastor, and he used to talk like that."

 Tony broke out in a laugh and Vlad gave him a dirty look.

 "Well, I'm sorry!" Vlad finally said to them.

 Henry sat down on the stool behind the counter, when his part-time help arrived and he continued to talk with the boys. He didn't bother telling the girl what she had to do, she knew by now, and they just exchanged greetings before the girl commenced with her work.

 "You know, Vlad, I sometimes can't believe those stories that you told me about University." he said.

 Vlad shrugged with one shoulder and in a sombre voice agreed.

 "I feel that way, too. It doesn't seem to be real, at times, and yet, do I look like the kind of guy that would have the imagination to come up with a story like that?"

 "Maybe, if you put it to music!" Tony snickered at Vlad and this made him quite angry. Vlad didn't mind being made fun of or being laughed at, but he did indeed mind it when someone put down his music; even if it was just a joke. Professional criticism he could take because, usually, critics were knowledgeable enough to lend constructive put-downs, by explaining why their opinions were so negative.

 "That's so funny, I could shit!" Vlad blurted out, then turned to Henry. "Excuse me, Henry?"

 Henry let the remark pass. He was aware that his young friend was very touchy about his music when it came to that sort of thing.

 "The whole system at the U. of T. was screwy, you know!" Vlad started in the usual way. "Everyone was so conceited and refused to share their musical compositions with anyone. Each person was off on his, or her, own tangent and nothing was heard from any of them until the final month of school, when everybody played their favourite original compositions at a national faculty concert. There was quite a huge volume of music that was bad but there was also an equal number that were great. Of course, there were some pieces that were mediocre which Jon Norman Slater had rippedoff and with his highly respected talent, had improved upon." Vlad was now starting to become embittered, thinking about his chief rival again. "It's not so much the idea of Slater's talent, which granted he does have! That doesn't bother me! What does bug the hell-out-of-me is the praise that everyone, including the professors, give him for doing it!" Vlad was getting more angry and even so, becoming red-in-the-face.

 "Caroline!" Henry called his part-time girl over, pointing at the nearest coffee pot, at the same time. "Bring that over here and refill these!"

 Without hesitation, Caroline brought the pot to where they were sitting, refilled the cups and also poured one for Henry.

 "Say, Vlad! It's not worth getting yourself steamed over, is it?" Tony remarked in questioned hesitance.

 "It must be true, then!" confirmed Henry. "Every time you talk of that Slater fellow, you go off like a grenade!"

 "I'm sorry about this, Henry... Tony!" Vlad felt a little embarrassed, allowing the thought of that pirate to get to him. "It's only... anyone with just a little bit of talent can do what he could do, and some did, but they never received the praise for it." Vlad stopped for a moment, coughed, then took a sip of his coffee. "He must be one satisfying fellatio artist. That's all I can say for him, because I doubt that everyone thinks that highly of him just because he's talented and charismatic."

 "Like I told you some time ago, Vlad, let him have his glory now. Your day will come, and who knows... maybe you'll surpass his initial 'greatness' and excuse me for using that word." Henry had already said that same thing to Vlad, over a dozen times.

 Vlad was hoping, and even praying to God, for that to come true. However, the more that he wished for it, the further it all seemed to move away from his reach.

 Thanks, for that, Henry." said Vlad. "I thought that I took my sunglasses off, long ago, but whenever I think of the way I was mistreated, I really get pissed-off!" He looked down into the bottom of the cup and watched some coffee grinds, floating like drowning people in an endless sea.

 He sipped up whatever he could from the cup and looked up again, at Henry, Tony and at the girl. Henry's help, Caroline, caught Vlad's eyes skimming over her body and she smiled at him. She was thinking that maybe he was interested. This was the furthest thing from Vlad's mind, however. He did need comfort, now, but not the kind that any woman had to offer. The comfort that he craved-for, was the kind that a few bankbooks had - namely, a couple ones... followed by six zeros.

 He knew that this would've been his best comfort. To have plenty of money and find a fair orchestra somewhere that would help him to record his music, and maybe perform a show with him.

 It was sad, at times, when he realised that all that he really had was a head full of dreams, and talent. He had no connections in the business, except for the professor at University, and they have already pushed their favourites into the spotlight. What burned Vlad the most, was his infernal lack of money. It was a sad realisation but he had discovered that once someone had money, a great number of friends, lovers and big business associates, just seemed to happen. Literally, it would be a case where everyone would jump on his bandwagon for a free ride.

 Vlad wondered what that would be like, and he promised himself that if he became wealthy, he would tell no one about it. His lifestyle would appear the same and he'd behave no differently. In that way, if he did develop new friends, the chances would be better that they were sincere and no just hoping to be friends with a bunch of banked paper.

 He had discussions about this with Henry and Tony, telling them that he wouldn't even tell them about any better financial change. Money, like power, eventually corrupts all those associates with it.

 Vlad told his friends some time ago his views on money, and power. "Money and power are like someone wanting to get into a Masonic Lodge. It's next impossible to get into it, but once you're in, you're in for good!"

 It was a Severist attitude, of course, but it was expected from him.

 The talk that they all had today was less biting than it usually was. Vlad was calmer than he was normally, and so was Tony.

 Henry, being the way that he was, always remained calm and he was hoping that maybe the boys were finally starting to accept their situations. He did observe a burning anger still within Vlad, but lately it had taken-on more of the appearance of disappointment, than it did hate.

 "You know," Vlad started thinking out loud. "I think that the reason that I'm so nasty and bitter about my life in University is the fact that we were rarely, if ever, given encouragement in what we were doing.

 "Yah!" added Tony. "It was like that at the military academy, too!"

 Henry just nodded his head to what the boys said.

 "That happens to everyone, you guys! The older generation always say that they want to see the new generation become great and prosper, but they rarely want it to happen while they are still alive."

 Vlad nodded his head in agreement and cut-in.

 "That's right, Henry. If the young did take over the jobs that they were trained for, there would be many older people out of work. It doesn't seem to matter, either, if those younger adults end up discovering some major technological breakthrough, or whatever."

 "That's where these younger people see the lack of confidence coming from their predecessors. Sure, go forth and prosper but wait until I retire, before you start!" Henry continued, finishing the initial thoughts that he wanted to convey.

 They were all silent for a moment until Vlad spoke, again.

 "I suppose that we can't blame the older folks. I mean, they've probably worked hard to get where they are and they don't want someone to take it away."

 "You're learning!" Henry lightly confirmed to Vlad.

 Tony didn't particularly like the idea of the older crowd running the world and he told Vlad and Henry.

 "I like the dog-eat-dog world, better!" he said.

 "Listen to him!" Vlad said. "This guy goes nuts if his Mechano set gets taken from him." Vlad was disgusted by Tony's opinion. It was a good thing that he didn't come back on him in a harsher put-down manner. He could have destroyed what little self-esteem and personal respect that he helped Tony attain through his empty statements to him about his good fortune.

 He was conscious of this and he noticed the disappointment emanating from Tony's eyes. If Tony were a dog, he would have gone off with his tail between his legs and his ears drooped.

 It was apology time again and Vlad felt hypocritical for doing it, but he didn't want to see Tony go rangy or do something stupid later-on, just because someone disapproved of him. Tony was smiling like the sun after Vlad apologized and it was, as if, he forgot that thing that Vlad had just said to him.

 Henry saw what went down before him, and it made him feel edgy. He felt sorry for Tony, but like Vlad, there was nothing he could do to help, and still remain sane, himself.

 He stood up from the stool and pushed it closer to the corner of the bar, out of the way. "Well, I have to get back to work." he told them. "How much did we run up today, Henry?" asked Tony.

 "You've already paid for the first cup. I'll take care of the refills."

 "Much obliged, Henry!" Vlad said in a strained voice as he got up off the bench and buttoned his bomber jacket half-way.

 "I'm glad that Indian Summer had stuck around for a while longer. I'm sure not looking forward to winter, you know." he said.

 "We'll see you boys, later!" Henry never said goodbye, only invited return visits. It was as if he were instilling an obligation in his customers to come back again and again, and most of them did.

 Vlad and Tony announced their imminent return, then stepped onto the escalator to the main floor, and back towards King Street.

 "What do you say we do now, Vlad?" Tony was already becoming bored and they haven't even left the mall yet.

 "I don't know. Walk around, maybe!" Vlad answered robotically. He had other things on his mind, namely a new idea that he thought of just a few days ago.

 "Let's go play some pool, out back the caf&#381; on Ontario Street."

 Vlad wondered if he should go or not. He didn't have very much money to begin with and to squander it on a game that would be quickly over, just didn't suit him at the time. Pool was fun to play, but only if one were void of other worries. Vlad felt void, although his mind was exploding with thoughts and worries, mostly about money.

 He had subsided on government grants and loans, during his four years in University. Now, he was no longer going to school and he had to start paying back his loan, back to the government.

 The idea of that gnawed at him throughout the summer while he was searching for work. The feeling was worse now. He thought that his mind would implode from his worries. The high interest rates were beginning to move in on the guaranteed, low interest, promised by the Ontario Student Aid Program. He should already be paying the loan back, but after a plead-session with his bank, he managed to squeeze-out of them an additional month before he started repayment. They didn't seem to mind very much, and he didn't see why they should. They didn't halt the interest increase on his amount repayable, so Vlad would be paying them back more money than he should, in the long run.

 Vlad wasn't happy with his situation of life. He was within a few bucks of five thousand dollars, to pay back to the aid program. If he were to pay it back at the twenty percent that he was informed he'd be paying, he would jack up his initial repayment to nearly two thousand dollars more. Any kind of a job would've been great for him, right now.

 Not more than a month ago, Vlad received from one of his professors an application form for a contest based in Montreal.

 The qualifying prize money wasn't much, only three thousand dollars, but he hoped that he'd get it. At least, with that much money he could pay-off a good chunk of the money that he owed.

 Anyway, Vlad entered the contest sending in the music and a cassette tape of the two movements from his musical.

 He never had any hopes for it now, though. The date of the winners announcement was at hand, and he was indifferent towards it.

 His confidence was waning and he believed that he'd never win.

 Tony was still waiting for an answer on the pool idea and had become impatient. He asked Vlad once more.

 "Want to play pool?"

 "Maybe another time, Tony." Vlad was trying to keep his depression from coming to the surface. If it did, Tony would've picked up on it an he would've joined him, thinking that, that was the thing to do, at the time.

 "Let me ask you something, Tony?"

 Tony nodded to him and waited. They exited through the big, double-glass doors of the mall, stepping out on the sidewalk of King Street.

 The day was much nicer than it had been recently; since October. Now the sun was shining and there wasn't as much wind. The city's populaton of pigeons were back and were shitting on the sidewalks, again.

 Vlad continued with what he started to ask Tony.

 "What do you think of the idea of my getting a professional agent to promote my musical? It's just about finished and I know that it's a good piece of work!"

 "I think that's a great idea, but they don't come very cheap, do they?"

 Vlad sighed and with a shrug tried to answer that puzzle himself.

 "I heard of some that change their clients until they are able to sell some of their client's work!"

 They stepped against the lights and across the street, and some guy that was a half-block away leaned on his horn. Tony was excited and pointed to his crotch while he hollered at the driver. "Eat this fag!" he shouted.Vlad continued with his thoughts, as if nothing had happened, just looking up to make certain that the driver wasn't insulted to the point of coming out and drawing blood.

 "I don't know where I'll find that kind of an agent, Tony. You know, I haven't sold anything yet!"

 "You know? I think I'll check around town and maybe get myself some engineering job!"

 Vlad was getting tired of Tony's company. He was so used to talking about music all the time, that listening to Tony's unending ramble about engineering, was really beginning to bore him. He shut-up and didn't say anything for a while, and soon Tony followed suit, feeling that it was the thing to do, at the time.

 They were walking down towards the Eaton's Market Square. Vlad was going to the bus terminal behind it, on Duke Street, to catch his bus for home.

 Tony was heading to the record store on the basement level of the building to buy a Max Webster record that was on sale there.

 They went to the terminal and hung around for a few minutes until Vlad's bus came.

 "I'll call you tomorrow, maybe, Tony!" Vlad said.

 "Aren't we going to watch 'The Competition' at the Cineplex, tonight?" Tony asked him in an uncertain tone of voice. Vlad looked at him suggesting, with his expression, that Tony was stupid for asking. What he answered with helped to strengthen that idea, and Tony felt disappointed. "You've got to be kidding?" responded Vlad, then got on the bus.

 

 

 CHAPTER FIVE

 FINAL ENTRY FOR JOURNAL NUMBER SIX - SAT. NOV. 14, 1981

 This really is some way to spend a Saturday night! That's all I can say.

 My life has changed very little since I began jotting down daily happenings, etc., in these books, and now looking back on them, every day seems to be like the one that passed by.

 I'm so glad that I bought two of these blacks books during that sale, back in March. Just as I had mentioned then, I probably wouldn't have the money, now, to buy the next one. My prophesy came true, and I truly don't have the money.

 Tomorrow I begin my new journal and I wonder if it really is to my worth while. Nothing of any great significance ever happens to me and I often get the feeling that I'm just wasting my time, and paper.

 Of course, if I do become a great man in the field of music, one of these days, I don't want any jerk-off biographers to speculate about my life, or to write from second-person hearsay. I figure that, for posterity, I have an obligation to continue recounting my life -- just to show the world that the individual, in such a prestigious profession, can live a dull life during their beginnings.Let me tell you, now (whoever you are, that's reading this); the pursuit of a meaningful life, is not all that it's cracked-up-to-be! Seriously! If things don't work out just right, it can be devastating. Not all professions can be benevolent and accepting. If a colour-blind painter creates on canvass, an ocean scene of a purple sun rising over an orange sea, it could be hailed as a great artistic achievement in surrealism: yet, if a Portugese would paint their house in the same colour scheme - it would be hailed an 'eye-sore'.

 A senile sculptor could carve-out a figure in wood or stone and maybe make a mistake, misforming the head or some limbs, but he too could be praised -- for adding insight into the social state that humanity is presently involved; yet, a contactor misaligns one girder, in his structure, and they're called inept or negligent.

 If you take literature, some of the most widely accepted classics are those that expound the dark side of mankind, and especially his psychotic perversions. The writings of the Marquis DeSade are a perfect example. The French elite used to flock to see the atrocities portrayed in his weird dramas. No wonder we have sadism and masochism nowadays.

 Then take music and see how benevolent people would be if they found out that some of the new forms, and styles of music that never use melody, were composed by musicians with tin ears. Look out!

 The reverse reality of that idea, is Beethoven. He had composed some of his best music while he was deaf and many people argue that those were projects actually written years before he ever became deaf. Granted, one never knows, but anything is possible in this universe; mankind is the ideal proof of that.

 If I seem to ramble on, I'm sorry, but I'm getting fed-up with all this shit that's been piling up around me. I'm sore that things aren't going my way, but you probably know that by now -- having read this journal thus far, and through the other six journals, too.

 I really can't understand what makes me that much different than my musician counterparts.

 I don't really seem to fit in with any one particular group, right now.

 To make things worse I'm still stranded in the world's anus, Kitchener, without money-enough to buy new clothes, a car or anything else that sustains mankind.

 Naturally, I don't have a girlfriend, and I've never really had one. There was one girl, once-upon-a-time, that did mean a great deal to me but because we were both too young to actually realise that we... well, loved each other, nothing was allowed to happen.

 It all makes me wonder, if my life is, what's called 'average', or if it is unique to me alone?

 I'm fully aware that nobody can answer that for me, but I do have some thoughts to keep me busy; that thought, as-well-as the thought of repaying my student loan.

 These kinds of things are what make life out to be a bitch. Don't you agree? You would supposed that physical life was given to the soul so that the individuals could experience pleasure and enjoyment, and social contact. However, life never happens to set itself, neatly, into such a nice and simple package. Maybe that's why I find abstention from physical needs and desires, to be necessary. Of course, all this could be a cop-out and an excuse for not getting laid, earlier in my life.

 It's odd, in today's society, for a man to be a virgin at the age of twenty-three. Everyone (that also includes the clergy), expects the males of the population to stud by the time they are eighteen -- at the latest. Now, I notice similar attitudes developing towards the sexual flowering of women at an early age like say, twelve years old.

 I'm not going to state here, whether that attitude is right or wrong. I don't believe that it's my place to say because, I am not God. My opinions could be worthless to perverts, nymphomaniacs and sadists, anyway.

 Yet, I find that most of the prosperous individuals are those who indulge in pleasures first, and then in life, last.

 Whoever you are, you probably know me fairly well by now. Afterall, you've read through six years of my life and have thus witnessed each and every one of the two thousand, ninety-one days, contained within my six journals.

 You are aware of my final years in that damned highschool, which specialised in mental masturbation and the development of working-class clones. Oh God; they were such lonely and frustrating years. They were years that shackled, not only the body but the soul, as well, into cramped desks where all the students were forced to listen to monotonous voices for eight hours a day. Voices that came out of the mouths of heartless and sexless beings called 'teachers', who cared more about their weekly pay-cheques than they cared about their profession, or their students.

 In reality, it was like living through 'A Clockwork Orange' nightmare.

 I had once seen a poster of profound statement. It showed a bunch of truly different individuals heading into a building that looked like a factory, but which had 'highschool' written on it. On the other of the poster, it showed a bunch of intellectuals leaving the building. The poster was probably British, since these 'graduates' were all dressed in three-piece suits, and wore bowler hats and carrying umbrellas.

 The musical group Pink Floyd may be right when they say in 'The Wall': "We don't need no education!" This system of life segregates, rather than unites individuals. You know about my troubles with Jon Norman Slater.

 He's probably learned how to handle people, having grown up in a city like Ottawa. Undoubtedly that liar's motto would be -- "screw who you can, suck up to important people, and succeed!" I wonder how that would look in Latin, written over a coat of arms of an auburn-haired Slater, fornicating with a pig.

 I've been thinking about all those muse-parties that I had gone to, in University. You are unaware of the fact, I never enjoyed myself at those parties, and only now I think I'm getting balls-enough to admit why. Throughout the major part of my childhood, I have been accustomed to being the hub in the wheel of events and activities. In highschool, I still seemed to be somewhat central, but of a smaller wheel. Then, in University, I became an ordinary spoke and Slater became the centre of attention. The reasons for this happening escape me, except maybe to say, he's older than me, by four years, or so.

 Am I envious of him? Am I jealous of his abilities as a musician, or as a crowd pleaser? Is the jealousy that I possess towards him, only in my mind?

 Maybe my dislike for Slater is up in my mind? Slater's talent is definitely below my own and I'm not trying to brag here, I'm just trying to state a realistic fact.

 Quite a number of people react fairly positively towards me and some even crave to have me around, as company, and that includes some of my music-school colleagues.

 I think that I know why Slater is hailed, over me. He's willing to prostitute himself completely and unscrupulously to each individual with whom he comes in contact.

 In a sense, his methods work and are interesting. I suppose that he thinks, that if he pleased each individual a little, he pleases then (as a crowd), a lot.

 However, I don't believe that Slater is smart enough to come up with that kind of reasoning. I still hold true to my belief that he's just good at performing fellatio.

 The reason that I'm writing things like this is because I assume that I am now dead, and that you are reading these journals as if they were my memoirs.

 If you are a relative or a descendant of Jon Norman Slater, I'm sorry for having you find out what a prick he really was. (That's assuming that he's dead, too - unless it's you, Slater, who is reading this. Isn't this a kick in the groin, man?)

 Enough about Slater, though. I've had it with him and the constipation that he incurs on me.

 I've just had a thought of another female that had entered my life, in University. That's right, Melina Rossi!

 She was one beautiful Italian quail. A native of Brooklyn, New York, she received an international scholarship to study the harp and she chose the University of Toronto Music Faculty, as her place of study.

 Melina had decided on the U. of T. because it was well-known and respected, and she could stay with her fairly wealthy relatives in Toronto. I can still see that beautiful thing as if she were standing right infront of me. She was taller than me, some six feet in height, and she had strawberry blonde hair and green eyes. Her skin was really smooth and aglow with a nectarine colour. To top it all, she had one fine figure, too.

 Coming from Brooklyn, her mind could've been a little cleaner. She smoked too much and was a borderline wino, getting sloshed on whatever she could, as often as she could. All this could be overlooked, though, and I could tell that she needed someone to keep her in line. Whenever she was around me my heart beat like the blades of a helicopter, and if I weren't tied down, I'd probably have taken off.

 Due to those mild symptoms that I diagnosed as being love-sickness, I decided that it was I who would get close to her and coax the hidden potentials from within her, out into the open.

 I could see that she was brilliant and that deep down, she was a good person. Having been lead to believe that she felt the same way, I did go ahead and courted her. In some small sense, it was more like pleading with her to go out with me. She refused.

 After a half dozen tries I decided to keep my love from afar, rather than up close. I wasn't a fish on some line, to be played with, until I gave-up.

 She was an academic year ahead of me at the University, although she was the same age. I figured that Melina was a smart girl and could know a good thing when she saw it, but she never allowed me get close to her.

 You can remember those days when I felt really low and depressed because of that woman? God knows what I have written all my true feelings about it all.

 What is really interesting, is seeing her, finally, in a realistic light. In my last few weeks of school, this last spring, I had noticed what she was really like and I suppose that before then, the term 'love is blind', truly did apply to me. Of course, if love wasn't blind, at the very least I believe it to have been cock-eyed.

 Around Halloween, of last year, Melina began to hustle a buddy of mine, Rupert Attenborough. That drove me crazy and for the first while I thought that it was all jealousy ploys. Later, I found out that she really liked him and never even considered me, romantically.

 Rupert was your classic beach-boy in looks. He looked constantly tanned, and had a golden-blond hair with a dirty tint to it. While he walked through the University campus and its hallways and cafeterias, it was as if the whole place were his domain.

 That's all okay, though. Everybody needs some way to be recognised and admired. Some of us need it more that others, but always, we all need to be respected for our best qualities. If we are pretty on the outside, we try to push that quality. If we are prettier inside, than that gets the promotion, and if some of us have a jungle of hair on our chests, well, that gets exposed more often.

 Rupert was a pretty fortunate guy, overall. He had parents that were somewhat well-off, financially. He had his own car and he also had found himself a weekend job in a bar, for which he got paid nicely. Having transportation and pocket money just happened to be that little extra, he needed to be regarded as a one hundred percent catch, by any girl that he met.

 I've been listening to some music while writing in here today. No wonder my emotions appear to be fluctuating. I feel no different than a lump of taffy that's being pulled by a couple of Roller-derby queens trapped in a closet.

 I'm beginning to think of Melina, again, and now the song 'Misery', by he Beatles, is beginning to play. It's not enough that I have already contemplated suicide because of her, but I now have to feel that same way until this song ends.

 Maybe my outlook on life is too harsh? I'm entitled to be a little crazy! All creative genii have a few loose screws upstairs Well, I have to calm myself in some way, and I figure that self-praise might do it.

 I'm glad that I left a few extra pages at the end of this journal, for recapping. I had no idea that I was going to get carried away and recap my entire life; although that idea is interesting and I'll keep it in mind.

 I have to get cracking and find myself a job, you know? I'm nervous about paying back my student loan and let me tell you, that's a good reason to do- yourself-in. Sometimes, I think that maybe Shylock is the one who distributes the loans to students. (The interest that has to be payed, would be the pound of flesh).

 That song is finally over, but like a self-inflicted punishment I have Styx: 'Man In The Wilderness' following it. Yet, how fitting these coincidences are, to the way that I feel at this very moment.

 Maybe these emotions are induced, or maybe they're reflected from within me. I don't know the answers and I wonder if they are really that important to be answered, at this stage of my life.

 You know this already, but I'm just going to tell you, one final time. All I want to do with my life is compose music, play piano and eventually to conduct an orchestra in my original works. I also want some good female, of appealing looks, to share it all with, so that it would all mean, that much more, to me. I sometimes wonder about the future and how it will turn-out. This wonderment isn't only for my life, but also extends into the life of the world.

 There isn't a single atom of matter or energy that does respond to some form of music. Music is unity and peace, and without it all, mankind would be nothing more than a primitive protozoan, living off the earth. Maybe one day we'll all figure out how to cooperate with one another, and pull this planet out of the pitfalls that other generations have caused it to fall. I figure, improve the world and each individual's life will improve with it.

 See you in the next journal.

 November 14, 1981

 Vladimir X. Peploh

 Vlad had spent over an hour vomiting his thoughts onto the last pages of his sixth journal.

 Whether or not what he was writing was true, it doesn't matter very much. He tried to write in his glorified diary, everything, exactly he way that it happened -- or the way that he believed that he saw them happen -- and he attempted to write with all honesty and openness. In a way, Vlad could be commended for the way that he had entered his thoughts onto paper; not only in music, but also in words.

 His insight had almost reached that of wisdom, with just a few factors that prevented its attainment.

 Although Vlad was officially a man, in the eyes of the government and the rest of society, he thought that he was just growing up, now.

 As far as Vlad was concerned, there was still much to learn about life and about people.

 Where, as a teenager, Vlad used to think about sex all the time, he now was beginning to think of more committing subjects. Marriage was one such subject that he contemplated, and remembering his failures with girls throughout highschool and University had depressed him at the core of his confidence.

 Vlad was learning, and at twenty-three years of age, he accepted the fact that he still had time to become a famous and maybe wealthy artist.

 

 

 CHAPTER SIX

 Several weeks had gone by since Vlad started his seventh journal. Actually, the time that had passed was closer to a month, and as if to commemorate that start of the new book, Vlad managed to finally land himself a job.

 It wasn't much of a job, paying minimum wage and the working conditions were scummy. He was working as a dishwasher at The Steak House on old King Street, just off Fairway Road. The place had an easy access by bus or even by walking, since Vlad didn't live far from it.

 He was promised by the assistant-manager, a couple of weeks after he started work, that he'd be getting a small increase in his pay, on his next cheque. A small increase was what he did get. It was only ten cents more per hour. All the same, he didn't complain. Vlad really needed this job, at this time, and he was going to hold on to it for as long as he had to.

 He was still patiently waiting for that music contest, in Montreal, to announce its winners, since they had changed the date of the announcement to several weeks later. Their excuse for doing that was the postal strike that had lasted for over the entire summer, and they were waiting for a backlog of applications and material.

 How would they know about held-back applications? Vlad wondered about that and he hoped that the contest wasn't rigged to let someone, like Slater, win it. It was a Saturday morning and Vlad had entered the Kitchener Public Library when its doors were opened. Last week he had caught the tail-end of a television music program that was broadcast on the American Public Broadcasting System, and it gave him some ideas and some inspiration, on where he could get some money, which would allow him to compose his music.

 He had gone to the library to do a little poking around, in whatever books he could find, that listed foundations and artistic councils that give grants to artists that are both new and experienced.

 He had found a few books that listed a thousand places that he could apply to. He sat at a large table in the Heritage Room and flipped through the music section of those books and copied into a lined tablet of paper, all the information concerning 'how to apply for grants'.

 Not very many of the foundations that were listed gave a great deal of money, regardless of the applicant's professional status. If one applied to more than one place, say half a dozen, and received a grant from all of them, only then would it be worth while.

 Vlad soon turned to the section that listed the Canada Council and he found that his best bet in attaining the necessary capital that he needed, would be from them.

 However, he noticed a few items that bothered him. He had to qualify for a grant and if he did qualify, he'd have to get three people to recommend him, with letters that appraised his work and ability.

 The only people he could ask to do that for him were a couple of professors from the University.

 This idea wasn't the only one that perturbed Vlad. He came to the end of the council's explanation of granting and noticed that he had just missed a granting cycle period. Now, Vlad would have to wait until March before he could apply for a grant and he wouldn't know the results until June.

 Working evenings until closing and cleaning-up, which usually took an hour after closing, Vlad rarely got out of The Steak House before three in the morning, and he didn't get to bed for another hour after that.

 Usually, he woke at ten or eleven in the morning, had something to eat, then went down to his Horner piano and continued with the composition of his musical masterpiece. He was nearing the completion of it and he wanted to get it over with the soonest possible.

 When he composed music in University he could finish off a symphony within two days, but ever since he graduated and left the University, he slipped behind and it now took him over a week, per movement for his symphony.

 He looked up from the grants book feeling pretty depressed and angry, as usual. This was supposed to be a library; a quiet place to come and read or study, but today it was crowed and noisy.

 Vlad slowly closed the book and pushed it a few inches infront of him.

 He sat there for a while and just looked around at the people and what they were doing.

 Sitting here, like this, reminded him of what Strauss used to do when he was feeling bored. Vlad now did the same thing. He tried to hear the natural rhythms and beats, which were immediately around him.

 He drew a stave on the back of his paper, then after a while began jotting down notes and rhythms.

 It was amazing, thought Vlad. True life movement was almost identical to beats used to compose waltzes.

 Vlad was about to create a Strauss-like piece of music. Just like the master's own, 'Tales of the Vienna Woods', Vlad would have his own fabulous piece of music, and he knew what he'd call it, too. Vlad had thought that 'Dreams In The Heritage Room' would be appropriate, for a title.

 He kept looking around and saw quite a pretty woman ambitiously looking around the book-shelf from which he had removed the grants books. He noticed that she was quite cute from behind, having a great pair of legs and other such accessories that showed themselves nicely in the dress that she had on.

 Her hair was very long, loosely hanging down passed her hips, and was as black and shiny as onyx.

 When she turned her head, to look down the row of books, Vlad almost died. Her face was even prettier than the rest of her.

 She shifted her eyes towards Vlad and caught him inspecting her. She blushed and began to behave in a self-conscious manner.

 Vlad was reaching a state of panic because he didn't know what to do. He assumed that she was looking for the same books that he was using, and he wondered if he should offer them or just leave. "Excuse me, miss?" he called to her, so making his decision to offer her the reference material.

 A few kids that were sitting at other tables gave him a dirty look and the young woman was aware of it.

 "Are you looking for these?" he asked her.

 She turned around slowly and stretched her neck to see them until he lifted one book, for her to see it better.

 She answered with a nod and slowly went over to the table and thanked Vlad.

 "I'm through with them, now." Vlad was desperately trying to instigate a conversation between himself and this lovely lady.

 Once more the woman thanked him, this time adding a smile and she waited for Vlad to say something else. She had seen that he was nervous but still wanted to talk.

 "I've been looking through those for the past couple of hours. Could I help you find anything specific?" he suggested his assistance.

 The young woman's dark eyes reflected the warm smile that she had inside her.

 "Well, I was looking for some details on the Canada and Ontario Arts Council! I'm an artist and I've been wanting to apply for a subsistence grant so that I could paint fulltime this summer." she answered.

 "We're both too late for this cycle in the Canada Council." he began. "The next one is in March and I'm not sure that the Ontario Arts Council gives very high grants."

 "I wonder if it would be worth my time to go through these, then?" she said. Vlad looked at the list that he copied down, all of them contained the individual arts for which one can apply. He lifted these papers towards the girl, handing the pile to her.

 "I've copied out some thirty places for my own use. Quite a number of them accept applications from painters, sculptors and painters, and those kinds of artists."

 "What do you mean by 'those kinds of artists'?" she turned on him for a moment and he was startled.

 "Hey, I didn't mean anything bad by that!" Vlad was defensive, and his voice became a little louder.

 They were hushed at by a few people, one guy especially, who undoubtedly couldn't hear himself read.

 "What kind of an artist are you?" she asked him.

 "I'm a musician!" he smiled."Rock and Roll?"

 Vlad watched a little grin bloom across her face when he answered.

 "At times!" he said, then introduced himself to her. "My name is Vlad Peploh!"

 "Natalie Page." she obliged her name to him, and he smiled with delight.

 "Very pretty, and suits you perfectly." Vlad hoped that a little compliment would be to his advantage now, and it had worked.

 Natalie quickly became relaxed with Vlad, and he was comfortable with her, too.

 They sat in the library for a while longer, talking about their respective careers and why they aspired to them.

 Natalie was taking down some more addresses on Vlad's paper having agreed to share them whenever they needed to, so leaving themselves open to see one another, again.

 While talking to each other, Vlad and Natalie came to know one another to the point where someone would believe that they have been friends for years.

 Vlad was told by Natalie that she was a Kitchener native, twenty-five years of age, and that she had spent three years in a Paris art school. It was a true that she had just returned to the city in July and was beginning to run out of some money that she had made on painting sales.

 "Before I came back to Canada, some Briton, Lord-Something-or-other, bought two of my paintings for twenty-five hundred pounds." she told Vlad, listening with amazement and admiration. "I don't know why he bought them because he spent more time looking at my ass than he did looking at my paintings."

 Vlad smiled a bit and came back with a weak little witticism.

 "Art is in the eye of the beholder!" he said raising an eyebrow.

 "That's cute." she said sarcastically and continued. "Anyway, he had the nerve to ask me to go back to his house in England and show him where to hang it."

 "You didn't, though?"

 "Of course not!" she whispered a scream. "But I very nearly did tell him where he could hang it."

 Vlad lost the smile that he had on his face and became serious for a moment. He didn't want her to feel that way towards him, since he did have a good look at her earlier and did want to keep seeing her after today.

 "Say, Natalie, I'm sorry if I embarrassed you a little while ago. I didn't mean to stare so intently at you!"

 Natalie smiled and touched Vlad's hand, reassuringly.

 "It's okay, Vlad. It's not as if you grabbed it and wouldn't let go. Besides, I don't mind it if cute guys look at me, now-and-again. That just shows that they have normal, active, libidos. She was finishing up the final address of a foundation that she was going to try, and then she closed the book. Vlad had thought that she was about to leave and he still didn't think that he knew enough to ask her to go out with him. He had to think fast because he still wanted to be around her this afternoon, at least for another couple of hours. It was one o'clock now and he didn't have to be at work until five thirty, this evening.

 "Would you like to have a coffee with me?"

 He waited for an answer, which came after she put her coat on, and it made him feel good because she had accepted.

 What made Vlad feel ultimately great was Natalie's suggestion that they both head for a coffee at The Coffee Bar.

 Henry would be pleased to see Vlad with a girl. In fact, Henry would be pretty excited to see Vlad with such a beautiful looker like Natalie. They both took a pleasantly brisk walk in the cold December air, making their way down Queen Street to King, and finally down to the mall. There was always a seige of people walking around in the downtown core. There were as many people driving their cars around, but it didn't matter what time of the year it was, all the people seemed to run around, mindlessly.

 There were a few people that were walking around without presents in their arms. This was supposed to be the Yuletide season, but there were no actual friendly exchanges between people, anymore. Vlad had noticed that Christmas had, indeed, become nothing more than the crass commercialism that everybody was beginning to dislike -- yet still latch-onto.

 The entire atmosphere of Christmas was no longer the same and it wasn't just because he was now an adult. He had found out that Natalie had the same reactions towards what was happening with the holiday spirit.

 Now it was like the Three Wise Men going to praise baby Jesus, but giving him gifts of electronic games, money and credit-cards, instead of frankincense, gold and myrrh. There are moments when these three wise men really seem to be account executives, wearing three piece suits, that came to the stable, to advise the baby's parents on successful tax-dodging.

 Vlad and natalie fought the pinching cold until they came to their final destination.

 He opened the glass entrance door for Natalie and she smiled at him when she opened the inner door, to let him pass. They bowed their heads to one another, gesturing thanks for the other's courtesy.

 Natalie stood inside for just a moment, undid her coat, pulled her hair out of the back and shook herself at the shoulders.

 "That's better!" she said, as if being relieved from some great discomfort.

 Vlad hadn't noticed her actions but did see how she looked afterwards. She was beautiful and he asked her permission, if he could give her the compliment.

 She giggled with delight at what he said to her, and her already rosy cheeks reddened even more.

 "You're really very beautiful, Natalie." he had told her. "You remind me of a pure black, floppy-eared rabbit that I once had."

 She liked his compliment regardless of its lack of sophistication and finesse. She discovered that she liked him. She had found that was probably why that feeble attempt at praising her had sounded to her like a Shakespearean sonnet.

 "You're cute, too, Vlad!" she smiled at him while they were beginning to slowly move into the hallway of the mall.Vlad looked around the mall.

 Something was oddly different and he couldn't put his finger on what it was until he stopped using his eyes.

 "Do you notice something different about this place?" he asked her.

 She looked around but didn't see anything that was out of the ordinary.

 "The only difference that I can see are the Christmas decorations, but they don't appear to be unusual." she said to him.

 "Listen!" Vlad instructed. "There's no shop-music coming over the mall speakers."

 "I usually don't notice, one way or the other." she admitted to him.

 Their pace gradually quickened until they passed the book store and stepped onto the down-escalator towards The Coffee Bar.

 Henry was just arriving to work. He owned The Coffee Bar, so he could come and go as he pleased without having to answer to anyone but himself.

 He saw Vlad descend on the escalator. He waved to him and got a response.

 "Who's he?" Natalie wondered since he looked familiar.

 "Oh, that's Henry. He owns the coffee shop!" Vlad told her and she looked back at him with a look of realisation. No wonder Vlad never requested some closer place to have coffee.

 He just gave her a little wink and didn't have to say anything more.

 They both stepped off the escalator and strolled over to the bar. For a moment, as they got off the escalator, Natalie's hand touched Vlad's and they quickly glanced at one another, acknowledging the accidental touch, but without word, letting it be known that it was alright.

 When they sat down on the bench, at the bar, it was in the usual place where Vlad sat when he came for a coffee.

 Vlad noticed that Henry had one of his favourite brews made today, and after he verbally gave his greeting to Henry, he gave a peace sign.

 "Two Bolivian, Henry." he asked him in a warm tone of voice that didn't need a 'please' tacked-on to it.

 Henry saw Natalie beside Vlad and he felt happy for him. He poured two cups for his best customer and his guest, and then he pushed the cream closer towards them.

 "So how's business, Vlad?" Henry asked him while he took a closer look at the beautiful female that was with him.

 "Getting better, I guess. Can't complain, you know!"

 Henry grinned at Vlad's answer and then deeply sighed as he looked back at natalie, again.

 "Won't you introduce me?" Henry pushed.

 "Oh -- of course. I'm sorry, Henry. Henry Olfusen, meet Natalie Page!"

 "Hello, Natalie!"

 "Hi!" she responded to Henry.

 "I'm glad that we were finally introduced! I like to get to know as many of my regular customers as I can."

 They shook hands and Henry observed that Natalie took her coffee the same way as Vlad liked his -- black with one sugar.

 "Have you known one another very long?" Henry continued.

 Vlad hadn't the chance to answer, being beaten to the punch by Natalie.

 "Yes, for a while!" she remarked, giving Henry the impression that it's been for ages.

 "Can I get you anything else? Maybe a cookie or a bran muffin?"

 Natalie unconsciously looked down towards her waist, shaking her head negatively and giggling a thankful non-acceptance.

 "Nothing more for me, thanks!" came a similar response from Vlad.

 Henry thought that Vlad and Natalie looked good, sitting beside one another. He hoped that maybe this was the beginning of something good for Vlad, because Vlad had told him almost everything about his life. Henry was aware that Vlad had some untimely and aggravating experiences with the opposite sex. He wished, within his own heart, that Vlad would be happy, because Vlad was like Henry's own son. It was a relationship however that wasn't as close as Henry would've desired.

 The relationship was open and more business-like than anything. He had never felt at liberty with Vlad to tell him what problems that he had experienced throughout his life. All that he told Vlad about was his start in Canada, as an immigrant cobbler. He never once mentioned that he had a son, who would be about the same age, as Vlad now was, if he hadn't drowned in an accident at the Elora Gorge, a decade earlier.

 Maybe that's why he liked Vlad so much. He looked similar to his boy and he was a smart young men, too. Vlad had suddenly closed his eyes, as if he were in severe pain. Music had begun to bombard the store customers, once again. This time it wasn't too bad, being a piece from Handel's 'Messiah', but still, it was a cheap and mindless, crowd-pleasing type of recording. He thought of Slater. Vlad felt like finding the device, which was the source of this anal music and gift it with a few blows from a sledgehammer.

 "What's the trouble?" Henry appealed.

 "That garbage music is playing again." Vlad answered, pointing a finger into the air.

 Henry shook his head a little, relieved that it wasn't something serious with Vlad.

 "I never noticed it, until now!" Natalie stated to Vlad, rubbing her foot gently across the side of his shin.

 Henry noticed but he didn't say anything. He was pleased to see that Natalie displayed a child-like affection for Vlad, and he was so very happy for him.

 "Say, Vlad ..." started Henry. "Did you want me to put this on your tab?"

 Henry tried to help impress Natalie, for Vlad, by trying to make him look more important.

 "Yes ..." Vlad smiled. "Please do that, Henry."

 Vlad hadn't caught on to what Henry was trying to do until he saw Natalie's reaction to it. He played along, now, because he realised that Natalie knew what Henry was doing.

 She gazed directly into Henry's eyes then gave him a warming wink and Henry smiled back at her.

 Soon, there was a fairly sharp, tinny-sounding music coming from some place. That began to annoy Vlad, too. He looked around to find the origin of the invading noise-waves and finally saw Tony walking up towards The Coffee Bar, with a transistor radio shoved-up against his head.

 Tony waved and like a chum, Vlad replied.

 Natalie, behaving like a lady didn't ask Vlad who that guy was. She just looked at Tony approach them, and then he sat right beside her.

 Without being obvious, Natalie moved closer towards Vlad. He didn't say anything about it. All he did, instead, was introduce Tony to his new lady friend.

 Tony looked her over more than just once, becoming somewhat annoying and bordering on the repulsive, and to Vlad's total amazement, some of Tony's comments were unlike him.

 "Got yourself some nice chick here, Vlad. Must have lots of nice whitemeat!" Henry was surprised by Tony's strange rudeness. He saw that Tony was upsetting Natalie and he just couldn't understand why he was doing it. So dar, Natalie had said hello to Tony and was just being plainly polite towards him.

 Tony didn't seem as if he knew what he was saying but he proceeded to keep speaking rashly.

 "Yup, Vlad! She's really nice. Hang on to this guy, chicken -- he might be rich one day!"

 "Is something wrong, Tony?" Vlad's voice reflected worry towards him.

 "Hell, no! I feel better than I've ever felt. I just had a call to go east for a co-op study session in -- you got it -- industrial engineering!"

 Tony was behaving irrationally because he was happy. Everyone could accept his feeling good, attaining something that he's been striving for, but that was no reason for him to get so foul towards anyone that he didn't know.

 Natalie leaned her head back until she reached Vlad's ear and she whispered to him that she had to go now, and that he could explain what just happened, later-on.

 She opened his jacket and pulled out one of the pieces of note paper that he had shoved there, and she wrote down for him her name and phone number.

 "Call me!" she told him. "Tomorrow, maybe -- and tell me what the hell just happened here."

 "I'll call -- I promise!" said Vlad, and Natalie caressed his cheek.

 "Tomorrow, for sure, Vlad! Bye-bye!"

 The order was something that Vlad could obey.

 "See you later, Natalie!"

 She winked at him then made her way towards the Charles Street exit.

 "See you, Henry!" she saluted Henry but didn't give Tony a second thought. Tony didn't care because, for some reason, he obviously didn't like her.

 Vlad watched Natalie walk away and as she reached the exit doors she turned and gave him a little wave.

 Henry waved to her at the same time, with Vlad, and Tony gave her a wave, too. One difference with Tony's wave, however, was that it looked like he was telling her to get going.

 Vlad and Henry both saw what he did, and they were surprised.

 "Boy! She looks like she's got one humpable body -- eh?" Tony jerked his head, back and forth, to the raunchy music being squealed out of the radio, as if a dying pig were trapped inside it.

 "Cut the shit, Tony!" Vlad scowled at him. "You're acting like a real ass-hole!"

 "Why are you acting so funny, Tony?" Henry asked him nicely.

 Tony smiled and took the radio away from his ear.

 "Like I said, guys ... I'm going east for an industrial engineering co-op. There was some kind of an oil find just south of New Brunswick -- a place called, Machia Seal Island. This one oil company needs a bunch of men to help build an ocean platform rig."

 Vlad looked at him with a disinterest caused by Tony's earlier comments about Natalie.

 Vlad glanced over at Henry. Henry was happy to hear the news, but afterall, Tony was a friendly customer, too.

 "I had liked him better when he was miserable!" said Vlad.

 Henry grinned and poured some coffee for a couple of customers that sat down. Tony resumed his story with much excitement. He was very pleased about getting a real job, in that field in which he had been trained.

 "Machias Seal Island is close to Main, too, so some American Oil company is involved with this deal. I'm finally fitting myself into the big times, and I love it!"

 Vlad laughed a little. He never could stay mad at anyone for very long. He even felt indifferent about Slater, at times, although never allowing himself to like him actually.

 "You're happy to rough-neck-it on some oil rig?" Vlad had thought that anyone wanting to work at hard-labour was crazy, regardless of how high the pay was.

 "Hell, no! Do you think that I'm that stupid?" Tony was ecstatic in his defence. He had something big to tell them and was taking his sweet-time in doing so. "I landed myself a position as a Junior Supply Exec.!"

 Vlad laughed, this time a little more strongly. He just couldn't believe that Tony found a job in his chosen field, let-alone one that wasn't back-breaking -- yet still well-paid.

 "You -- a suit?" Vlad couldn't contain himself.

 "I'll be spending five months on a work-ship before my first leave." Tony added. "I sure hope that there won't be any fags on board, but seeing the way things are nowadays, there will probably be at least one chick available."

 "I truly hope that everything works out, Tony!" Henry gave his best wishes to him and then served some more customers.

 "I don't know how you managed that job, Tony, but I really do have to admit that I thought that I'd be working long before you!"

 "Let me tell you something, Vlad ... I thought so, too!" Henry watched Vlad's face for a moment and he saw that he was genuinely pleased for Tony. He also saw a change in Vlad that suggested great confidence in himself. Henry knew what the expression on Vlad's face had meant. If Tony could get what he was looking for in life, being slightly beneath tolerable intelligence, then Vlad for sure, could get what he wanted, too.

 Henry definitely wanted to see Vlad succeed. It would be such a thrill to tell people that he knew Vladimir X. Peploh, back when ...!

 For now, however, all Henry could do was to lend morale support and he had plenty of it to spare. Throughout his younger adulthood there were times when he just could not handle life's problems without someone telling him, 'Hang-in- there, Henry! Tomorrow will be a better day!'

 It was funny, but better days did come around and they managed to stay around for a long time. Even after Henry lost his only son, Daniel and then his beloved wife, Penelope, there were days that came along which made Henry feel good. His memories of young Daniel, nobly losing his life to save another's, and his darling wife Penelope who never gave him a troubled moment after forty-one years of marriage, sustained him. These memories were something to live for, and they gave him some comfort when things went bad. Henry realised that he'd never want to trade the life that he has had, for anything else.

 Henry was happy for being fortunately blessed with contentment.

 He hoped that, one day, Vlad would find his own contentment and reflect upon these times as a necessary part of life's education. Customers began to congregate around the counter and there were many who were looking for a seat.

 Vlad and Tony gulped down their luke-warm coffees and Vlad winked a good-bye to Henry.

 Tony waved and Henry nodded his head back to them.

 As the young men left The Coffee Bar, Tony turned up his transistor radio. An Alice Cooper song, which he liked a lot, was playing over the air.

 People coming down on the escalator stared at them -- undoubtedly with the opinion that these two young men were a couple of creeps and probably strung-out on something.

 "YOU AND ME ..." the crackling words and manic sound hissed from the cheap speaker as the two guys were lifted, by the escalator, to the main floor of the mall.

 "For some reason that song is having a depressing effect on me!" Vlad said to Tony.

 Tony wasn't listening to him, but Vlad didn't notice.

 

 

 CHAPTER SEVEN

 Christmas was finally over.

 Another year of rushing around, while a state of psychosis had passed, leading the public into, what is most commonly called, 'the after christmas, sales period'.

 This was the time when a few of the lucky pre-Christmas sale survivors risked their lives to buy merchandise that was on sale, for thirty percent more than the regular price. Vlad wondered what the sales would be like the next week?

 This was New year's Eve and some of the fervour of sale-hunting had subsided, waiting to start up once more, the day-after-tomorrow.

 Vlad was outside tonight and walking. He managed to get a ride near to Stanley Park Mall, with his folks, when they were going to visit friends.

 Natalie lived in the nearby area, on Old Chicopee Road, an her house was no more than maybe four or five blocks from the mall.

 It was a newly-built house, just a few years old, and it was out in the boonies section of the road, where there were a very few number of street lights. It was very quiet outside on this night, or so Vlad had thought it as being fairly quiet.

 Many of the houses along the road were dark and they looked omnipotent.

 Snow was everywhere, cloaking everything around with soft whiteness, like a white-feather blanket that covered the sleeping earth.

 Vlad liked winter nights that were like this one, although they were never around for very long. He felt good and alive, to seeing the huge snowflake clumps gently fall to the earth, only to disappear amongst the crowds of other such flakes.

 It was warm outside tonight, and Vlad walked on the road with the top buttons of his bomber jacket, opened to the air.

 He was totally covered with snow, his hair sparkling from the crystallized flakes. If he were much taller, there would certainly be a few people who would mistake him to be the abominable snowman. If he were older and stoopedover, he'd look like oldman winter, in denim blue-jeans, and a white Roy Orbison hair style.

 Vlad loved winter nights that were just like this one. There was something peaceful, something serene, about a night like this. These sort of nights brought back the Christmas spirit feelings that he had thought were no longer present in society. The feeling was thrilling and he knew that ti would all be over too soon. Tomorrow would be different and it would probably be cold and windy. Those kinds of winter days Vlad hated because the whole world looked dead.

 It was fairly quiet out tonight. Only distant sounds of cars driving down River Road, and an ambient hum, from the downtown core, could be heard. Sometimes Vlad heard some trees cracking and groaning from the weight of snow on their branches, and he watched some snow fall off, as if the tree itself shook it off.

 With each step Vlad's feet sank deep into the powdery snow. The sound of this was a sort of music to him, the beat being like that of waltztime. The sound was also funny to him because he thought that it sounded like someone was running wet fingers over the surface of a party balloon. He had anticipated to hear a sudden distracting sound, in all this peacefulness, but nothing happened.

 He looked at the numbers of the houses, but only to keep himself amused. This wasn't his first time visiting Natalie. It was a matter of routine, they were a regular sight, to those that knew them both.

 Since the first day that they met at the library, they had seen and talked with one another very regularly. Actually, there was hardly a day that had gone by that they never saw each other. Sundays were the only problem for them both since neither of them had a free access to a car, and the buses didn't run their routes on Sunday.

 Vlad had once walked from his place, near Fairway Road, to Natalie's house, but he almost fell asleep while talking to her. Natalie wasn't angry, though. She appreciated Vlad's attitude about wanting to keep seeing her, regardless of the troubles that he had to experience. That time was the first time since they met that they really kissed one another. There were other times when Vlad kissed her hand and cheek, but on that day, they both selfishly embraced one another and sustained their kiss, as if it were their last one.

 That would have been an inspiring sight if only someone had seen it, but it was private and belonged only to them.

 Vlad had given Natalie a nice compliment that day. She wanted to be told something more by him -- that he loved her, maybe -- but what he said, although was very similar, was somewhat more colourful.

 "I never thought that a girl could ever be this special to me. I'm happy that you are this special girl in my life, Natalie; instead of somebody else!"

 Her response to his praise was a tiny blush and a bear hug that nearly fused them together.

 They were very close, now and Vlad was on his way to her home to share New Year's Eve, just with her, alone.

 Her house wasn't very far away now. He saw it approach with every successive step that he made.

 There were no clich&#381;d feelings of slow motion or unreachable goals, idea. The walk from the mall to her house was an extremely quick one, and it felt the same. That isn't to say that Vlad wasn't feeling anxious to see her, he was but he knew that he'd soon be with her. That frame of reason spurred him to walk quickly and not feel weary when he finally arrived to is destination. There was

 Natalie's house, looming large and beautiful, with cliffs of snow hanging over the eaves from the roof, looking as if diamond dust had been strewn over every square inch of its surface. Small columns of smoke escaped from the chimney stacks, the larger one announcing that there was a romantic, warm fire in the fireplace.

 He stood there for a moment, admiring this place, and then he resumed his gait up towards the building. There was Natalie, standing at the large picture window, gazing out onto the street. She waved to Vlad then disappeared, letting the drapes that she had been peaking through, fall back into their place.

 The front door swung open and Natalie smiled as she leered at him walking up towards her. She held-open the storm door for him and he finally stepped inside the house.

 She laughed a little. He looked funny, covered all over with a layer of snow.

 Natalie helped him off with his jacket and he slipped off his kodiaks and pulled up his socks. With her warm fingers, she pulled bits of snow from his face and eyelids then gave him a kiss that seemed to melt the remaining snow from him instantly.

 "Hi-there!" she said to him. "You look a little wet!"

 "I just swam the Atlantic, to get here and see you!"

 They gave each other another kiss. Vlad felt warm all over and Natalie felt something, too. "Let's get you out of these wet things, and I'll make you a special toddy." She lead him to the fireplace and shortly returned with an orange satin robe with an embroidered scene of Mount Fuji on the back.

 "Whose is this?" Vlad asked her.

 "It's mine!" Don't you like it?"

 Vlad shook his head, slightly to one side, and laughed as if he's been told some joke.

 "You don't expect me to wear a woman's house-coat, do you?" he said to her.

 Natalie sighed as she put her hands on her hips.

 "Sometimes you guys get so disgusting with that macho trip!" she blurted at him.

 "Oh, come on, Natalie! You know me better than that! I don't have any fake, macho hang-ups -- but, I'm not gay either!"

 "Really, Vlad. I bought that robe in that oriental place down town. It's unisex. Besides, you know that we are alone, so what's the hurt?"

 Vlad smiled and so did she.

 "Okay! ... I'll wear it, but I'd rather see you wearing it."

 "You get dressed and I'll get us some toddies!"

 Natalie left the livingroom and on her way out she turned off the lights.

 The room was aglow by the fire and by the Christmas-tree lights, that flashed on and off, looking like some organic pinball machine.

 Vlad stripped down to his briefs, which were the only things that were dry. Everything else; his pants, socks, shirt and T-shirt, came off. He donned the robe, and although it was just a fraction too small, it did feel good.

 He laid-out his clothes on the brick risers of the fireplace, so that they would dry more quickly and he had a seat on the couch.

 Natalie came back soon holding a brandy glass in each hand, and dressed in a white robe, like what Vlad was wearing.

 He stared at her, following the lines of her body with his eyes, seeing how her lush robe clung to her.

 "You said that you'd rather see me wearing the robe." she smiled, looking somewhat shy but also provocatively sensuous. "Here I am!"

 She handed him one of the glasses and they touched them together.

 "L'hiem!" Vlad saluted.

 They each took a small gulp of their drinks, then Natalie took his glass and put it next to her own, at the fireplace, to keep them warm. She sauntered over to the stereo consul and she put on a record. It was Abba's newest album, and when it began to play, at a low volume, she moved back towards Vlad and moved his hair from his eyes.

 "Why didn't you comb your hair?" she asked him then moistened her lips with one quick motion of her tongue.

 "No comb!" he smiled up at her.

 She squatted to one side of him and reached into her purse, which sat on the floor beside the couch, and pulled out a brush.

 They didn't see very much else for a while. They listened to the music and to the logs, in the fireplace, crackling away.

 Natalie seated herself across Vlad's lap and he supported her with his left arm while she slowly brushed his hair back into its usual order.

 Vlad was getting excited by the rhythms of the brush passing over his head, and by the Christmas tree lights that reflected in her eyes.

 A few times he looked down at the rest of her, sitting there on his lap. He watched her chest rise and fall a few times, as she breathed. That was the first time that he noticed that she wasn't wearing a brassiere.

 Natalie was aware of the change beneath her, and she gracefully slumped over towards him and kissed him, adding to her own sensual feelings.

 Vlad raised his right hand and caressed her cheek and neck, gently pushing her head tighter towards his own.

 When a few songs had passed, Natalie moved back away from his face and rested her head on his shoulder. She took his right hand and placed it inside her robe and over her breast.

 Vlad held his hand there, not moving it since Natalie's hand was still gently wrapped around it.

 He felt her breast slowly vacillate with each breath, and for a moment, he thought that he could feel her heart beating.

 Vlad wanted so much to make love to Natalie. It was apparent that Natalie wanted it, too.

 Vlad's need for pleasure involving deep love, like the kind that he had for Natalie, was superseded by his retrospect of Slater's playboyish activities. Slater had the type of mentality that had no regulation, except for having pleasure, as regularly as possible. It made a little difference with what type of girl he screwed with; regardless of age, cultural background or cleanliness. As long as it breathed and spread-eagle for him, he didn't mind.

 Slater had the delusion that every girl who laid eyes on him, wanted to be laid by him, as if he had some golden prick.

 "Vlad!"

 Vlad's thoughts were interrupted by Natalie's gentle voice.

 "Vlad! You can have me, if you want!" It took a moment for the offer to sink into his mind, but he finally took his hand off her breast and moved it down her side, over her hips and then took her under the knees and moved her off his lap, to his left.

 He kissed her on the corners of her mouth then took her hands into his.

 "Thank-you, Natalie, but ..." Vlad slowly shook his head in refusal.

 Natalie was stunned for a moment. She stared at him with huge and surprised dark eyes that seemed to plead -- 'what did I do wrong?'.

 "I thought that you were attracted to me?" she swallowed once, trying to keep herself from falling apart from her perceived rejection.

 "Am I ever! You have to be the nicest all-round person that I have ever met. I'm lucky that you're my girl, and not some other. It was really easy to fall in love with you!"

 "Then why ...?"

 "It's like this, and I hope that you'll understand. A little kid opens a gift-wrapped present, plays with it for a while (until he gets bored), then moves-on to another toy." Vlad said to her, and she stared right into his eyes. "I don't want to be like that kid -- and for sure, I don't want to be like that toy. Maybe you wouldn't want to be that toy, either."

 "Don't you like me enough?" she pleaded.

 "Hey, Natalie! You don't figure that I'd try to spend as much time, as I have with you, if I didn't like you?"

 "Vlad, I'm twenty-five years old, and I'm still a virgin." she confessed to him.

 Vlad's heart jumped. He knew that he loved her more than he could reason; now, he understood why. With all her outgoing and gregarious behaviour, it was her purity that had attracted him, and now in this day and age, that was a remarkable, if not a Holy-inspired quality.

 "I've kept myself away from sexual contact throughout highschool, and then when I was in Europe. Today I talked with an old friend of mine and I find out that she's married and has two kids. If we were living in the eighteen hundreds, I'd be called a 'spinster'!" She looked up to the ceiling trying to hold back some tears that were forming.

 "This is something!" Vlad began. "Virginity is nothing to be ashamed of, babe; especially when someone chooses to keep it as long as they can, without going crazy."

 She looked down to the fire. She didn't want to look over at him and let him see her fall-apart, just because of this.

 Vlad continued, putting her head back, against his chest, and holding her as tightly as he could.

 "I'm twenty-three and I still haven't given it up, and I'm not embarrassed to admit it. It doesn't make me less virile, as a man. Does it?"

 A silence hung over the room. The record just finished and all that could be heard was the fire and a snow-plough, outside.

 "Maybe you're right! I was beginning to think that maybe something was wrong with me!"

 "Far from it, Love!" he consoled her and felt her hug, squeeze him ever-so-tighter.

 "I wanted to wait until I met a guy that I really liked. I imagined a perfect atmosphere with a really nice guy; like here, tonight. I saw myself as being a sultry and sexy fox, willing to give herself to the one man that she..." she stopped briefly then finished. "... that she loved."

 "I don't know if you can imagine how flattered I am, that you think of me in that way.!" he said.

 "I can imagine, Vlad. Every time that you kiss me and touch me!"

 They gripped each other as if they were holding on, for dear life, to a life-preserver. They kissed each other once again.

 "I'm sorry if I came across like a slut!" Natalie was beginning to feel bad about what had transpired this evening. Vlad's love for her, however, assured her, her purity.

 "I could never see you like that, my love!"

 They both sat there quietly and they caressed one another. With eyes that were closed, they saw perfectly with their fingertips, feeling each individual hair on their heads, and also the smoothness of their facial contours.

 "What did you make for supper?" Vlad asked.

 "You can't be serious?" Natalie asked him.

 He just laughed a little and answered her in a sigh.

 "Yes! You just totally drain all my energy from me, every time that I'm with you!"

 "I made some veal cutlets in Spanish sauce, and some baked potatoes, and vegis. Wine and desert."

 "Red wine, I hope!" commented Vlad.

 "Naturally! Red -- always for meat!"

 "And desert?"

 "Me?" she answered with a silly questioning tone.

 Vlad picked her up, swung her around and headed for the kitchen table.

 "I'm not a cannibal, but you keep that up and I just may end up dining on you tonight!"

 "Do you think that I'd be tasty?" she kept on him.

 "I have tried that lovely neck and mouth, of yours. So far, I find you to be a rare delicacy!"

 He ran to the kitchen with Natalie in his arms and he set down on the floor and they took a seat at the table.

 The supper was great, Vlad thought, and he told her so.

 Afterwards, they went back into the livingroom, hand-in-hand, and finished the toddies that were now only lukewarm.

 Vlad threw another couple of logs on the fire and reclined on the couch with Natalie beside him.

 All the lights were out except for the Christmas tree lights, which were rhythmically flashing.

 Vlad and Natalie were in a welded hug. Vlad was on his back and Natalie was over him with her head on his chest.

 Vlad gently stroked her hair, and followed through to the very ends which were longer than his whole arm.

 "You are beautiful -- you know!" he said to her. "I feel so fuzzy, inside, when you say that, Vlad!"

 "I mean it, too. I'm not saying it so I could screw with you."

 "I know that, now, Vlad!"

 He opened his eyes and looked down towards his feet. All he saw was the nicest pair of legs and backside, with the warm fire light shading the white satin robe that clung to her.

 Over the past couple of weeks, Vlad had been contemplating deeply about Natalie; and about himself. He weighed all the proverbial pluses and minuses in their relationship and found that there were, by far, more pluses. In short, Vlad loved her deeply, and this evening had, more or less, proven to him that Natalie loved him, too.

 "Natalie?" he said softly.

 "Mmmm?" answered Natalie.

 "I want you to tell me something but not right away. I want you to think about it and tell me tomorrow, or better yet, in a few days.

 Natalie hummed another response at him, as if answering that she'll do what he asked.

 "Would you consider marrying me?" Vlad asked her but never sensed a reaction from her. He thought that she was asleep and he decided to ask her again some other time.

 Natalie smiled.

 Morning finally came and a sliver of sunlight invaded the livingroom through a gap in the drapes.

 Natalie woke first and lifted her head to look at Vlad. She kissed his chest, until she covered every inch that she could before he awoke, too.

 When Vlad finally opened his eyes, he smiled at her. They held a gaze that only lovers could produce. Natalie's moist eyes smiled a celebration at him.

 "Happy New Year!" Vlad said to her.

 "I will, Vlad!" was all that Natalie said and they kissed.

 

 

 CHAPTER EIGHT

 The telephone was ringing off the hook and Vlad wondered why nobody was answering it. He glanced at his clockradio and noticed that it was 11:30 a.m. The phone kept ringing so Vlad quickly jumped out of his bed onto the cold carpeted floor of his room and went to the livingroom, and answered it.

 "Hello!" he hollered over the phone.

 A familiar voice transmitted over the receiver and Vlad instantly became depressed. It was his boss from work and Vlad had called him a few days ago saying that was sick.

 That wasn't the truth. Vlad had said that in order that he could spend a few straight days with Natalie, over New Year's. Last night he had come home fairly late, having stayed-over all of New Year's Eve and New Year's Day, with his beautiful woman.

 "Sounds like you're over your cold?" were the first words that the caller had said after Vlad answered.

 "Yah!" replied Vlad. "Luckily my fever broke last night. I was just waking up now!"

 His boss didn't hesitate to jump right in and tell Vlad what was on his mind.

 "I'm going to have to ask you to come in to work today." said the manager of the restaurant. "It looks as if an epidemic hit this place, and we're short staffed!"

 "Okay. I'll be in at six o'clock!" promised Vlad.

 "Can you make it in by one o'clock?" the manager requested.

 "That's only an hour and a half from now!" Vlad sounded as if he were entering into shock.

 "You know that I wouldn't ask if I didn't really need you here!" the manager said and waited for a response. "Look, I'll give you a free supper and arrange a fifty cents per hour raise, for you." Vlad was beginning to like the way that his employer was asking him to come-in.

 "Tell you what, Boss! Make it supper and a buck an hour more, and I bet you anything that I can drag myself into work, by one o'clock!"

 "Don't push your luck, Vlad... but I'll see what I can do. You're lucky I'm in a good humour today. I'm sorry that your New Year's was ruined by that cold!"

 "Thanks, man! I was totally stuffed, right through it all!"

 Vlad wasn't lying about being stuffed throughout New Year's. Natalie was a great little cook and he did not want to disappoint her effort.

 They both hung up and Vlad went back to his room and got dressed in the usual clothes that he wore to work. While he set some water to boil on the stove, for coffee, Vlad took the phone and called up Natalie.

 Natalie answered on the first ring and Vlad joked to her.

 "If you can guess who is calling you, you will win a prize!" he said.

 He heard her giggle on the other end.

 "What's the prize?" she asked, playing his game.

 "Me, of course!" he replied.

 "Of course!" she exclaimed. "It's Vladimir Xavier Peploh -- lady killer!"

 "How are you, love?" he asked her.

 "Great! -- When are you coming over?"

 "That's why I called, Natalie..." Vlad could only play things straight with her.

 Natalie understood how Doctor's wives must feel, after Vlad explained to her that he was called to work, but she was happy that he managed to get a buck raise. That had meant that they were closer to getting married.

 He had told her, on New Year's Day, after she cooked breakfast for him, that the only time that he could consider actually marrying her was if he made over twelve grand a year. He promised that he wasn't copping-out of the proposal but he wanted to insure her a stable life, at least until he got on his feet with his music.

 "Don't be angry, Natalie!" he said.

 "I'm not angry, darling -- just disappointed!"

 They arranged to meet at the library, downtown, in the morning. They decided on the library since it was a Saturday and it marked their seventh anniversary.

 It had been only seven weeks since they first met but it was like they knew one another since their childhood.

 Their love for one another was indeed genuine and could easily be mistaken for one that's lasted for many years.

 Vlad and Natalie exchanged declarations of love for one another before they hung-up their phones.

 Vlad rushed his hair before he left for work. It made him excited because he forgot himself for an instant and imagined that Natalie was doing it, instead.

 He made sure that everything was in order before he left, and just as he was to exit the house, he looked at himself in the vestibule mirror.

 "You lucky guy!" he said to himself, then locked the door behind him when he left.

 The afternoon had gone by relatively slowly and Vlad reached a point where he was beginning to enjoy himself.

 He made jokes and interesting conversation with Cookie, the old chef, but business started to pick up rapidly at around five o'clock, and never let-up until closing time, at two in the morning.

 It was around nine-thirty when Vlad started to get bored with his mindless and menial task of pre-cleaning dishes for the dishwasher.

 He found himself humming a tune after a while. He went along with the beats of the scraper against the dishes and to the throbbing of the washer's pump.

 Without noticing, Vlad began to hum the tune louder until those that were nearby could hear him, too.

 "Do you know the words?" Cookie asked him.

 Vlad thought for a moment and then began to sing aloud.

 Cookie was impressed with Vlad's rendition of 'O Sole Mio'. He had listened to both Enrico Caruso and Luciano Pavarotti performing that song, and it was odd to find someone of Vlad's age having an interest in operatic tenor - although what Vlad was singing wasn't quite tenor.

 Cookie had thought that Vlad could stack up to any of the new opera stars, and he knew them all.

 Ever since he was a boy, back in Florence, Italy, he loved opera. He had given opera a try once, before the Second World War, when he was about the same age as Vlad but he never had the chance to carry through with it. He was drafted into Mussolini's army, where he had learned to cook, and he sang for the men in his spare time.

 Everyone from his unit knew him by name and they told others about him, too. "Come to hear Carlo Mediciano sing!" they said to as many people as they could.

 Now, everyone knew him as a great pasty chef, and so he came to be nicknamed, Cookie. Some of the younger employees thought that Vlad was going nuts but even they enjoyed the show after Cookie joined-in, singing off-harmony.

 They ended the song in a sustained unison and they received a little applause from the others in the kitchen.

 The boss came into the kitchen with some blonde girl beside him and he demanded to know what was going on.

 "It was starting to get a little dull back here, boss!" Vlad initiated an explanation.

 "We sing good, you 'tink?" Cookie asked the boss.

 "You're paid to work -- not sing! The customers can hear you and I don't want them to think that I have crazies working for me!" said the boss.

 "We hurt no'ting, with 'da song!" stated the chef. "Maybe 'da people like listen?"

 "Well, maybe I'll let you guys sing for them sometime. Right now, though, we're too busy to talk about it."

 When the boss finished he put his hand on the blonde girl's shoulder and introduced her.

 "This is our new girl, Kelly! She's been out on the floor observing the waitresses and the cashier, and I want one of you guys to show her the ropes back here. Okay!?"

 There wasn't much of a response because the regulars didn't like training anyone new. It wasn't because of personal reasons towards the new help but it was just the idea of going over something that they didn't care about very much.

 "Vlad!" The boss called to him. "You haven't trained anyone, yet. Have the honours."

 "Okay!" Vlad said, half-hearted. "Come here, blondie!" The boss exited the kitchen, returning to the more interesting dining room.

 Vlad reached under a counter and pulled out a long piece of binding cord, and handed it to the girl.

 "What's this?" she asked him.

 "I was told to show you the ropes -- well, that's one of them!" Vlad was playing cutes and he laughed a little.

 "That's very good! Can you drink water while standing on your head?" By the girl's comment, Vlad had got the impression that she wasn't much for joking around with; which was a shame because she was quite beautiful looking.

 "What's your name, again?" he asked her.

 "Kelly!"

 "My name is Vlad Peploh. Excuse me for not offering you my hand, but as you can see, it's pretty shitty looking."

 She looked at him in a strange way. It didn't indicate dislike, but it was a gaze that seemed distant and unreaching. She had a gaping grin on her face that made her look sort of stunned-in-the-head.

 "When dirty dishes are brought here from the dining hall, the person in charge of loading the dishwasher, first has to scrape everything into this bucket. Usually, I'm in charge of this... fun job, but I'll try to give youa chance at it." He looked over at her and saw her staring right at him, as if she were expecting to receive a compliment, or something. He wasn't going to be repeating himself to someone that seemed to have a 'love at first sight' syndrome, for him.

 "Are you listening?"

 "Yah!" she replied.

 Vlad thought that this girl was brilliant, able to utilize such a cultural term, as 'yah'.

 "Every hour or so, depending on the traffic in the dining hall, we take this bucket and dump it into the dumpster outside."

 "All right!" The new girl seemed to be following the instruction. She felt like he was accomplishing something.

 Something was bothering him about the girl. Maybe it was the lustful manner in which she was staring at him. He could now sympathize with how Natalie felt in the library, the first day that he met her. That particular thought threw his mind back into a workoriented frame. He didn't want his life to get side-tracked by some broad, now that he had found a gem like Natalie.

 "Can I say something to you, Vlad Peploh?" the girl began to speak.

 Vlad could see a compliment coming his way, and he tried to keep from laughing like an idiot.

 "-- Kelly! Would you come out here, please?" the boss ordered Kelly out of the kitchen before she could finish what she'd started.

 She never hesitated to leave when the boss called, so she probably didn't have the nerve to come-onto him, just like he thought she would.

 "She has hot panties for you, Vlad." Cookie pointed out that the new blonde seemed to be sexually aroused when she was with him.

 "That's great, Cookie, but I have my own hot lady, waiting to see me tomorrow morning!"

 "Two is a more fun, boy!" urged Cookie, speaking from experience.

 "You can't swallow twice in a row, Cookie. I learned that the hard way!"

 Cookie flung his left hand's fingers away from his forehead, discarding the thoughts that he was engaging in, at the time. He often became quite turned-on to younger women, and this new blonde was no exception.

 Closing time finally came around and kitchen clean-up was completed.

 Vlad, however, wasn't finished cleaning all the dishes because he hadn't managed to handle the back-log from the last-minute eaters that were served.

 Something was bothering him all evening but he couldn't pinpoint what was causing it all.

 He thought that he was tired or possibly he was really coming down with some illness. That would put a damper on things, right now, if that indeed were the case.

 He didn't get out of the restaurant until three-thirty and he was tired out of his mind.

 Ahead from departing for home, Vlad's boss thanked him for his good work and told him that he could have tomorrow off, since he worked so hard on his double shift.

 "Thanks, boss! Maybe you can put that new girl to work tomorrow, in my place?"

 The boss shook his head.

 "I'll put Mario on it. The new girl quit on me at around ten o'clock, without giving me any reason. All she said was, 'he didn't know me!' I still can't figure-out that one."

 "I'll see you Monday evening then!" Vlad promised, then took a short-cut home through the parking lot and Morgan Avenue.

 Walking up the block to his house Vlad suddenly stopped and went down on his knees. He screamed at the top of his voice.

 "OH -- SHIT!" he yelled and pounded his fists on the icy sidewalk. "Son-of-a-bitch!"

 In now silent breath, he let himself fall into a snow embankment that was just off his driveway. Soon after he cooled-off, Vlad picked himself up from the snow bank and went into his house, through the back way.

 Immediately, he headed downstairs to the pitch black basement, took off his coat and shoes, and then laid himself down on the couch. He wrapped himself in a throw that was over the couch and stared up into the void-like blackness of the ceiling.

 "Damn!" he said, under his breath.

 He had finally realised who the girl, at work tonight, was. It was Kelly; the girl that he met when he first had moved to this city.

 "How could I be so damned blind?" he said t himself, in a scolding whisper.

 He had wondered for a long, long time, where his Kelly was but now that she was right under his nose, he let her pass.

 Maybe he should've listened to Cookie when he said, 'two is-a-more fun'. He could have two loves in his life: first love, Kelly and now his beloved Natalie. Yet, Vlad couldn't see himself doing that. He couldn't hurt either one of them, without also having to hurt himself. He'd finally got over the hurt of losing Kelly the first time. He had found Natalie and formed a love for her that was true and steadfast. He couldn't risk losing her, too.

 "Good-bye, Kelly!" he said into the darkness and heard a string vibrate inside the piano beside him.

 During Vlad's years of growing up, he had wondered what made his life turn out the way that it did. He wasn't a bad person and he didn't harbour any malicious or evil thoughts towards anyone, and that even included Slater.

 When something was finally staring to go, more or less, right, something cropped up that made him feel terrible.

 At this very moment he felt terrible because of letting Kelly slide out of his life, again. He did admit, to himself, that he did love Natalie and wanted to share the rest of his life with her, but he also felt an inscrutable pain. The pain was like a white-hot knife cut him from his throat right down to his scrotum.

 He didn't feel like crying, though. His attempt to be true and loyal, both to Natalie and to himself, allowed him to be free from the burdens of his memories.

 The acceptance of Kelly's second adieu came to him very quickly this time, but he still hoped for the best, towards her and her life.

 Vlad lay there in the dark and tried to recollect his memories into a single unit and then filed them away, for ever.

 For some odd reason, the first images to come to Vlad's mind were those of one of his toughest days in University. He didn't understand the relationship between them and Kelly, but he let it all pass into finality.

 He found himself sitting in a large lecture hall, slumped over a small desk, writing a ridiculous examination on modern dance music. He remembered feeling hot, his eyes burning like embers, and his body sweating and shivering at the same time.

 The scene was clear in his mind, as if he saw a hologram of it all, just above him in the dark.

 It was around this same time, three days ago. Christmas-exam-week had started and just a day or two before, he spent over an hour outside in the freezing wind, trying to help his friend Rupert break into his own car. Rupert had been a little stupid and panicked about exams, that he had locked his keys in there. Vlad felt obliged to help Rupert. He always bummed a ride from him, and he never really had to pay very much for gasoline.

 Charles Pierce, one of Vlad's music professors, had overseen the examinations and he had observed that Vlad was in a bad state.

 The day after the examination Vlad was called and was offered to take a make-up exam because he had failed the original. Through Pierce's mention that Vlad appeared to be ill, the examiners gave him the chance to write another one.

 This made Vlad happy. He felt lucky, also, that the exam that he was rewriting was his last exam on the schedule. He'd have hated to rewrite them all, even if it was permissible.

 Naturally, the make-up exam was by far more difficult to write, and he managed to get a mark that just passed him. That made him feel awful since that one test had taken his overall grade-point average down by five percent.

 His retrospect went deeper-yet.

 He saw his old highschool, which he liked to call 'Kitchener Penitentiary Collegiate Institute'. It was a terrible place, as he remembered it. All the halls were painted pink and yellow and the classrooms were no different. Many of his classes throughout his highschool career were held in rooms that had few, in any, windows.

 His memories of weekend parties also didn't thrill him.

 He had hung around with a handful of guys that were considered by most to be too straight. They didn't smoke or take drugs but they drank a little. That little drinking was quite understated, however.

 Under Vlad's suggestion of finding girls from other highschools, instead of their own, they brought them to his friend's place on the weekends, and had real blasts.

 Almost every weekend, in their senior years, there was a party at Jody's house. Jody was Vlad's best friend throughout highschool and since his parents went to Lake Simcoe, to their cottage, almost every weekend, Vlad had stayed over, and there were binges. Everyone that was there -- which was usually made up of Jody, Vlad, Tyrone and Phil, and a set of regular girls from a highschool in Waterloo -- had a really memorable time.

 Vlad now reflected on those last years in highschool with a shameful point of view. He drank a lot back then, and although he never had full sex, he did come very close to it at those parties.

 A few of the girls let him feel their breasts and put his hands down their pants, too. One thing that became regular at the parties was something that Jody came to call 'head-games'.

 That game usually happened after everyone got sloshed. The girls would go to each guy and they would suck each boy's penis. After each girl was finished, they'd attach themselves to one guy for a necking session.

 After the first party, and Vlad had a share from his first girl, he left the house and went to the store until the others were done.

 Back then he really detested the idea of that type of orgiastic behaviour. This was especially-so with the idea of kissing with one of those girls, after they had sucked-off everyone else in the room.

 He couldn't handle that idea, so with each successive party, Vlad left for the store before the head games began and didn't come back until much later. Eventually he stopped going to the parties, altogether. Subsequently, he ended-up not going to very many muse parties in University.

 He realised that he wasn't totally pure, in body or soul, but he refrained from that kind of behaviour promising himself not to do it again, unless he was married.

 Since he finished highschool, Vlad's suffered for the love a good woman, and he stopped drinking and acting stupidly.

 He was a young man that practised self-control; sobriety and chastity, and tried to make it in life, on brains rather than balls.

 Vlad had felt, when he was attending University, that if he was going to fall from grace, it would be, totally, his own fault. Self-reliance was survival. Dependence was death. Too may of his colleagues, in the music school, became reliant on dependence and many of them soon became nonexistent.

 Vlad could hardly wait until he engaged himself in a full attack on the music world. He was almost ready and he knew it. The only thing that he lacked, was the money to do it all.

 "What do you really want to do with your life, Melina?" Vlad recalled asking her in the University cafeteria, one day before the end of her final semester.

 "I want to make it big, have lots of money and get myself married to a guy that's the same." was her answer.

 "What about Rupert?"

 "If he becomes rich and famous, I'll try to stay with him." Melina had a strange idea about what love was. "Hell, even if You make the big-time, I'll go after you. I'm not ashamed to tell you that!"

 Vlad had taken what she said as a joke -- letting it pass him by as an insult.

 "What makes you think that I'd marry you?" Vlad coaxed her with more questions.

 "Come on, Vlad! Everybody, including me, knows that you're in love with me!"

 Vlad was saved from a couple of great mistakes that he almost committed. Before his talk with Melina, he had almost gone crazy believing that he loved her. It was terrible even to the extent that Vlad had considered suicide. He just couldn't stand the idea of seeing her with his friend Rupert. He knew that she was screwing with him and he couldn't cope with that idea, at all.

 Vlad never felt the same way about Melina. After he had that talk with her in the cafeteria, he no longer was in love with her. Actually, he began to dislike her.

 He felt sorry for Rupert for being used, but he couldn't interfere in someone else's affairs.

 Compliance to social norms, was the greatest sin that anyone could commit. That was Vlad's opinion of the way that the populous majority was behaving. It was like communism, Everyone was expected to behave and be the same, and not very many refused.

 In this society, one was looked down upon for trying to be an individual, in every respect. Yet, those people like Slater, whom was a master ripoff artist, were praised.

 "I'll show them all!" Vlad said to himself, lying in the dark basement. "Another few years and I'll lift myself above the pea-brain-heads of those ass-holes who wanted to keep me from my goal. Under snob-like avoidance and unjustified put-downs, I've become as hard as stainless steal. Nothing will stop me!"

 Vlad had believed his own declaration of promise to succeed. His anger and disappointment over his stagnation in University, has sparked motivation within him that was far from being just personal.

 He sighed, though, at his unfortunate reality.

 "I'll just have to get over that first damned hurdle!"

 

 

 CHAPTER NINE

 Natalie was already at the library when Vlad finally arrived there, at eleven o'clock.

 She had come along shortly after the place opened and she took down some more addresses of foundations and granting organisations.

 When she finished taking down the few that she was looking for, she found herself an art book and sat near the same table where she and Vlad first met.

 Shortly, the Heritage Room was filling up and Natalie was becoming self-conscious about having her coat save a chair for Vlad.

 The book that she brought to the table was a bit boring so Natalie went to the side shelves and looked for something else. She grabbed a book on interior design and quickly was making her way back to the saved chairs, when Vlad took her to the back of the shelves and gave her the most potent of kisses since they met.

 They both breathed heavily since they were both out of breath from it, and finally Natalie hugged him.

 "Hi, there!" she said, her head pressed up against the cold front of his jacket. "I love you!" she added.

 "God only knows how much I love you, Natalie!" he announced to her as he began to stroke the back of her head.

 "It seems like we just met yesterday!" said Natalie.

 "Seven weeks, my love. That's almost yesterday!" he said to her. "I have tonight off. That's because I worked twice as hard on my double-shift, last night!"

 She looked up at him and smiled. "Maybe I'll make you a nice, romantic supper?" she suggested putting her chin on his chest.

 "I'm taking you out to lunch, then to a movie, then who knows ...!" he raised his eyebrows a few times.

 "Fresh!" she said.

 He lead her to her coat, folded over the chair, and helped her on with it.

 They looked down at the spot where he sat seven weeks ago, then they left hand in hand. They went to a restaurant on Frederick Street and sat there for over an hour while they talked and ate lunch. Vlad was in a festive spirit, so along with the fairly large and expensive lunch, he ordered a small bottle of champagne. He wanted to celebrate, in style. He's never really taken her out, having developed an understanding with her about his financial state but this time he wanted to show her that he could, also, be impulsive with his money.

 Vlad wasn't a cheap man, by any means, but not having suitable amounts of money, forced him to manage, more carefully, that which he did have. He still had a fairly large bank debt to pay off, although he had been able to pay back a chunk of it from the money he was making at The Steak House.

 He just wished that he would get a break of some kind so that he could pay the rest of his student loan debt and begin to live a little.

 When lunch was over, Vlad took Natalie to see 'The Empire Strikes Back', at the Cineplex. It was cheaper to see the movie during the first afternoon showing. They enjoyed themselves at the movies. There were only two or three other people in the small theatre that they were in, and it was like they were at a private screening.

 In true lovers' fashion, they held hands right through the whole movie. Natalie reacted with every scene that went by and Vlad was having more fun observing her watching the film, than he did watching the thing itself.

 They sat cuddled together, recapturing the feelings that they experienced during their cuddling on New Year's Eve.

 When the movie was over, they went across the street and down to Henry's coffee bar. Henry was in the middle of serving some customers and he never saw them until they were ready to sit. He probably didn't notice them because he never expected to see them walking around with their arms around one another's lower backs. For a moment they looked just like any other young couple that was walking around, except they looked cleaner. They were talking about the movie as they approached the bench. Vlad was telling her that he didn't mind the newer movies but he went in for the older classics.

 "I like the older films better, you know. The actors were really great back then, and they're just unforgettable. I watched all of Bogey's films, and Cagney, and stuff that Doug Fairbanks was in. You'll never see an Elizabeth Taylor or Jean Tierney in today's movies." Vlad told her.

 "Yes, but every generation has its favourites." she added. "Sure, and maybe in thirty years someone will talk about classic guys like Harrison Ford, and yours truly!" She laughed at his last remark and he so did as well; meaning it as a lighthearted joke.

 "Well, hello there!" Henry greeted them. "How was the holiday?"

 Vlad and Natalie looked at each other and answered.

 "Great!" they both said, together.

 "What'll you have, kids?"

 They looked over the blend names and Natalie whispered something in Vlad's ear and then left him.

 "How about two Mexican Sierra?" Vlad ordered.

 "Fine, Vlad. It's my best blend, today."

 Henry poured two cups of coffee, both identical, down to the teaspoonful of sugar for each; no cream.

 "How's life treating you today?" Henry asked him, sensing that the answer, this time, would be better.

 "I was just thinking about that last night, after work!" Vlad started telling him. "I think that things are okay. They can be better but, at least I'm working, and I have Natalie!"

 "You're doing fine, son! Just wait some more and you'll do even better!" Henry saw a great potential in Vlad that was like a time bomb, seconds away from exploding into a never before seen power.

 Henry had faith in Vlad and he was happy to see Vlad getting-together some of his life. He was also happy to see this young man with Natalie, since she reminded him so much of his own late Penelope.

 "You know what, Henry?" Vlad commenced and Henry's alert expression showed willingness to listen. "I'm not as bitter as I was ... once!"

 "I've noticed." Henry owned-up.

 "Do you know what a thrashing machine is, Henry?"

 Henry nodded with his eyes shut, his face suddenly losing its healthy colour.

 "I saw a child trapped inside one, once. It was playing around it, while it was working. It was unsupervised." he took a deep breath. "The poor thing fell-in and by the time I got to it and turned the machine off, it was too late. The little guy didn't survive!"

 Henry took a deep breath trying to keep from looking affected by what had happened, so long ago.

 Vlad stayed silent for a moment. Soon he cleared his throat and continued. Natalie returned and sat down beside him.

 "Some don't survive, Henry. I used to play inside one, myself. It was a damaged one which was never repaired." Vlad took a sip of his coffee and resumed. Natalie only listened, quietly. "I pretended that it was a space ship, or a time-machine! You know; imitating, to some degree, the stuff that I saw on television ... it never hurt me, and I never got hurt inside it." Vlad's tone of voice was deep and he seemed to have something very important to say.

 "At a distance, wheat fields all look like they're filled with identical stalks. Up close, however, they're all as different as snowflakes. Yet, once they're threshed for the seeds, they once again lose their uniqueness, and you're never able to tell which see came from which stalk." Vlad sipped at his coffee again, and Natalie rested the palm of her left hand on the back of his neck. "Don't you think that life is sort of like that, Henry?"

 "Looking at it in that way, I'm inclined to agree with you!" he acknowledged.

 "The educational system, in this hemisphere, is no different that your average thrashing machine. The government is like the operator that lets the thing run-on for too long. All the people that pass through them get beaten senseless until they're uniform blobs, and they become indistinguishable from one another -- just like the seeds after the wheat is threshed."

 I'm glad that this is a free and democratic government. Otherwise, you'd be arrested!" Natalie said to him, amazed at this new side in him that she's just seen, for the first time.

 "Why am I this different, Henry? How come I'm so distinct in comparison to others of my own age?"

 "You are, what you are!" Natalie cut-in with an answer.

 "That's right, Vladimir! There are wheat-stalks that survive a thresher, and are left somewhere until they are needed. Some may even fall back into fertile soil and grow into new green plants!" Henry added, with wisdom.

 Natalie put her head on Vlad's shoulder and kissed him on the cheek.

 Henry smiled happily with what followed Natalie's kiss.

 "I don't know, now, if I'm marrying a farmer or a composer!"

 Vlad looked up at Henry and grinned.

 "I'm so thrilled, right from my heart, to hear this!" said Henry. "What date is the wedding?" "That's still to be worked out, Henry but I'm hopeful for this summer sometimes." Henry shook hands with Vlad and he gave Natalie a peck on the cheek.

 Customers that were helping themselves to coffee, during the conversation, were reacting with a 'what's so special about these punks', attitude. They didn't mind about those people though, and they continued. Henry didn't even mind if they left the bar and for ever. He was happy for Vlad, one of his best, young friends.

 "I hope that I'm invited!" he said.

 "All my friends are invited, Henry!" said Vlad.

 "That goes for me, too!" Natalie echoed Vlad's remark and hugged him closer, to herself.

 It was quite a change that took place in the few minutes that they sat there talking with Henry.

 Morbid thoughts of a clone-like breed of wheat-people living all around them, to Natalie's sudden announcement of their marriage, seemed to be too much of an emotional change to handle in a mature way.

 Henry behaved like a little kid, doing a happy little dance behind the counter, and Vlad and Natalie looking as if they were on the verge of making-out infront of everybody.

 That would never have happened, but the jubilation that erupted around The Coffee Bar, surely gave that impression. Since they were drawing a crowd, and stares from everywhere else, they gave their goodbyes to Henry, promising to see him later.

 They never even paid for their coffee, in all the confusion.

 Natalie had the keys to her father's car, so they both ran back toward the library.

 She had parked the car in the parking lot closest to the library, across the street from it. The parking lot was part of the Centre in The Square, which was one of the cheaper parking places that was also near the down town.

 "Thanks for taking me to the movie, today. I can watch that film again, and again!" Natalie was telling him while unlocking the car doors.

 Vlad looked over at the building that housed that magnificent stage. He had forgotten the cold while he thought about having some of his music performed there.

 "I'm going to strike back, myself, some day!" he promised Natalie. "I'll make myself unforgettable!"

 "Let's get in the car; otherwise, what you'll make of yourself, will be a frozen statue." He grinned to himself, nodded his head then got himself into the car.

 Natalie started the car and let the interior warm up a little bit.

 "Where to?" she asked him, sounding like a female New York City hack driver.

 "Let's go home -- to my place!"

 "Anywhere, at all, lover!"

 She drove the car to the exit gate and dropped three quarters into the machine. The gate was slow to respond but it finally opened up and they slowly made their way to Vlad's house. It was slippery outside. Only a few maniacs sped around like they were driving on sand dunes.

 They weren't in too much of a hurry to get to Vlad's home, though. His parents were supposed to go out, to visit some friends, but that wasn't until five o'clock.

 Not very much was said in the car, between them. They were very close to one another, emotionally. Now, just being together was all that was needed to make both of them feel happy, beyond imagination.

 The car finally pulled up onto the drive.

 Vlad's parents were still at home because the car was still in the driveway. However, they were ready to leave. The car was warming up and he saw his father standing on the inside the front door, waiting for Vlad's mother.

 Natalie had parked the car on an extended space on the driveway, allowing room for his parent's car to back out safely.

 She turned off the car and saw that Vlad looked displeased about something, but she had thought that, in this instance, she shouldn't prod him for a reason.

 "Shall we go in?" he finally suggested and Natalie answered, simply with a nod.

 They left the car and walked up to the front door of the house, Natalie being given the lead. She was bothered by something and she quickly came to realise that they didn't holds hands on their way up the stairs.

 His mother was just about ready to lock the door when they reached it, but left that for him to do, once inside the house.

 His father went right down to the car and revved it a few times while his mother stood at the door with him and Natalie, and staring at her with suspicious eyes.

 She was saying something to Vlad in Hungarian. Natalie didn't understand the words but she did understand the tone, which was obvious that Vlad was being given some instructions.

 The expression on Vlad's face made Natalie feel uncomfortable. She had been over to Vlad's house before but this was the first time that she had seen his parents. They were never introduced and the attempt wasn't even made, this time.

 Vlad said something to his mother, pointing to her to go. His mother looked angry and got in the last word before she hobbled down the icy stairs and into the car.

 Vlad opened the door for Natalie letting her enter the house first. He followed, closed the door behind himself and then locked it.

 Natalie turned and watched him lock the door. Before she had the chance to say anything, Vlad took her into his arms and kissed her with whatever strength that he could draw from himself.

 They stood there by the entrance for a few minutes, still embraced.

 Natalie felt his body shake while she held him. Finally he was calm again, and after they took off their coats and boots, he took her down to his part of the house; the basement.

 Once in the basement, Vlad lunged for his piano and immediately began to play Sinding's, 'Rustle of Spring'.

 His face contorted with each note and chord that he played.

 Natalie sat down on the couch her knees together and her hands clasped overtop of them, as if in prayer.

 She observed him, and felt her own heart pounding with each thrust that Vlad conveyed to the piano keys, through his fingers.

 Tears formed in her eyes as she watched Vlad labour to produce a tune of such beauty and emotion that she had never before experienced.

 Vlad finally finished the tune and sat up straight. Breathing heavily, a small film of sweat broke from his forehead and he wiped it off with his shirt sleeve.

 "God, that was beautiful!" Natalie praised him.

 She stood up from the couch, came around the piano, sat beside him and put her arms lovingly around his neck.

 "How are you feeling now, honey?"

 "Better!" he replied, and caressed one of her hands.

 "What was your mom saying to you up at the door?"

 Vlad put Natalie on his lap and held her around the waist. He didn't know how to answer her without lying to her or hurting her feelings, but he did see that the only way of telling her, was direclty and straight-out.

 "This doesn't reflect on you, personally!" he began to say to her. "My mother said that they won't be home till late, and not to keep you here, too long."

 "Well, what did I do to receive a welcome like that?" she asked. She wasn't deeply hurt, but she did feel uncomfortable.

 "I said that it doesn't reflect on you, personally!" he assured her. "My brothers, when they lived at home, used to bring girls home. The next day my mother would notice things missing and then she'd suspect that those girls took the stuff."

 "Doesn't she know that I'm your fianc&#381;e?"

 Vlad's lack of an answer was answer-enough for her. Now, Natalie was feeling wounded.

 "Why didn't you tell them, and find some way of introducing me?"

 Natalie was holding back her feelings as much as she could. She was on the verge of crying but knew that she couldn't let herself succumb.

 "I don't think that it would make a difference! Anyway, she'd probably wonder about what your real motives are behind wanting me!"

 This conversation was difficult to cope with, so Natalie began to think. His mother already hated her and they hadn't even met yet.

 "What did you tell her before she left? She looked really pissed-off about something!"

 "I have to apologize to you, for that, Natalie." He replied.

 Natalie wondered what he meant by that.

 "My mother asked me, in a nasty way, who you were! I told her that you were the girl that I was sleeping with."

 Natalie took herself off Vlad's lap and walked back and forth, with her arms crossedover her chest. She didn't say anything, as she paced before him.

 "I'm sorry that I lied. It makes you look a little bad!" Vlad confessed.

 Natalie turned, walked up to the back of his piano and stared down at him.

 "Look a little bad?" she said to him, then she slapped the top of the piano. "She probably thinks that I'm some kind of whore!"

 Vlad sat there quietly. He just watched her until she brought her hands up to her face.

 Natalie was crying. She had hoped t be accepted by his folks before they were to get married, and even she didn't know how she could absolve herself.

 "You were even the one who said that you didn't want to have sex with me, on New Year's Eve!" she said to him while her back was turned in is direction. "I thought that you were so sweet for not taking advantage of my offer!

 Vlad quickly moved from the bench to Natalie and embraced her. She reciprocated.

 "Let them think what they want to!" Vlad said. "Once they get to know you, they'll see the truth. At least, we know that we're clean." Vlad gave her a little peck on the lips then kissed the tears from her eyes.

 "Do you still want to be my wife?" Vlad, again, proposed to her. Natalie looked at him with tearshiny eyes and promised him that she would.

 "I'll be your wife, regardless of what you become, Vlad. It doesn't matter if you succeed in your music goals or if you don't. I don't even mind it if I never get accepted by your family. I will marry you!"

 As they kissed, Vlad picked Natalie up in his arms and carried her to the couch.

 There, in the semi-darkness of the room, Vlad and Natalie lovingly cuddled one another.

 

 

 CHAPTER TEN

 Taking the trouble that Vlad and Natalie had at his home on Sunday as an insignificance, the weekend ended-up being enjoyable for them both. They both had fun when Natalie told Henry that she and Vlad were getting married; and later they both had as nice a time, making up after the tiff.

 Vlad had spent Saturday night at Natalie's house, again. They had fallen asleep in one another's arms, like they had on New Year's Eve, and they still hadn't shared sexual intercourse.

 The only intercourse that had passed between them was their lengthy talk about their future together, and about their individual glories in their chosen professions. In all actuality, if someone were to know of the respect they shared for one another, it would truly appear to be weird.

 There probably weren't very many people around (men and women alike), who refused fornication, when it was openly offered to them.

 Vlad and Natalie were different, though.

 They both admitted chastity to one another without being embarrassed about it, and they decided together, that since they have waited this long to have sex, they could surely wait a few more months until they were wed.

 Vlad didn't want to be a slave to anything but his own self-control, and Natalie kept him in line when she noticed that he was about to give-into his latent lust.

 "You're going to have to wait for it, now, my dear!" she always threw into his face when he started to get, very much, carried away.

 He was thinking about the weekend and he had just awakened from a similar dream.

 This Monday morning was beautiful, from what he could see through the fogged windows in his room.

 Lying on his bed with his hands behind his head, he could see a bit of the sun surrounded by a perfectly blue sky.

 It was early when he first opened his yes so he decided to stay in bed until he was fully awake.

 It wasn't until quarter to ten when he finally got out of bed and stretched. Every joint in his body had cracked and Vlad joked to himself about it.

 "One big maraca!" he mumbled to himself. "-And I'm supposed to be young!"

 He stretched once more and then did a few knee-bends and the like, although this wasn't a routine that he did every morning. Vlad was feeling quite fine today. It was one of the few days, in the past six or seven years, that he'd got out of bed with a positive outlook on life.

 This feeling he owed to his love for Natalie. She had shown Vlad that there was more to life than just racing to fame and glory, against a guy like Slater, or any of his other counterparts. She had convinced him that he would make good one day, but not before it was his time.

 Henry had told him that, too, and he himself had thought the same way. So, that advice was probably worth taking and he accepted it.

 After having his morning coffee, Vlad went to the mail box to see if there was anything besides junk.

 It was biting cold outside, and Vlad just grabbed the small bundle of letters and pulled himself back into the warmth of the house.

 There was a postcard from Tony, already out east. The picture was of an oil rig with a tanker off to one side. It was a cheap-looking thing but at least it was some word that he was still alive. He's been over there for a while and Vlad did begin to wonder about him, at times.

 'Vlad

 It's freaking cold out here and building has been held-off for a while.

 There are no broads here, but at least there aren't any fags, either!

 Have you got laid by your broad yet? If so, how was it? If not, see a shrink.

 Speaking of which, that's happening to my balls, from this cold.

 You've got a letter coming your way, so keep an eye open!'

 Tony

 Vlad was beginning to rethink his opinion of Tony. Maybe he will make it as an engineer. He was starting to sound like one, anyway. Vlad liked him better when he was a little less stable.

 He fumbled through the other stuff which was addressed to his folks. At the bottom of the pile, though, there was a long envelope addressed to him, from the Montreal Music Festival.

 He wondered what it was because their preliminary awards announcement was so long overdue. He guessed that it was an invitation to enter the next one. When he opened it, however, he was overwhelmingly shocked with what he saw. There was a six by three inch paper within the letter.

 Vlad could hardly believe his eyes when he let his eyes glide over the three and five followed by two zeros. He then read the accompanying letter to make certain that he understood what was going on.

 'Dear Mr. Peploh;

 You have been awarded the SECOND PRIZE in our preliminary

 judging, allowing your entry to proceed to the finals competition, commencing January 15,1982.

 The Final Competition results will be announced on National Media in the spring. We wish you all the luck, in the finals.

 Yours Truly

 Morgan Leighton-Bishop

 Festival Commission Supervisor'

 "Yee-e-a-a-a-hoo-o-o!" Vlad finally bellowed a cheer of thrilled victory.

 The sounds of breaking dishwear came from the kitchen followed by a burble of foul language, in Hungarian. His mother was scared by his scream of delight because she had interpreted the sound as a cry for help, and not one of joy. When she came into the livingroom and saw that nothing was wrong she hollered at him.

 "You stupid? Give me 'da heart attack like 'dat. Why you yelling?"

 Vlad's mother watched him smile. She thought that maybe he did go crazy, or something worse.

 "Look at this, momma! Thirty-five hundred bucks! I won second prize in the Montreal contest!" he told her with happiness and pride emanating from every part of his body.

 "Is 'dat all? Second prize is no'ting to yell." she said to him and the she smiled, also. "You can pay 'da gas bill 'dis mon't!"

 Vlad shook his head in a defeated manner; submitting to her request, with a smile.

 "Okay, mom!" he agreed.

 It has been quite a few years since his mother last kissed Vlad, but she tried to show her happiness for him by giving him one, now.

 In Hungarian Vlad's mother told him that his father will also be pleased when he hears the news.

 When the joyous feeling was subsiding from its initial shock and impact, Vlad sat down in the livingroom and phoned-up Natalie to let her know.

 She answered the phone on the second rig and Vlad just breathed heavily over it.

 "Oh, hello, lover-boy. What's new?" she said.

 Vlad laughed and before he said anything he told her that he loved her.

 "I just called to let you know that, I still think of you." he also said to her.

 "It is difficult being apart for so long isn't it?" she was anticipating his feelings. He stayed quiet for a moment and so did she, waiting for one another to say something more.

 "By the way, my love," Vlad was now telling her the good news. "I got this little thing in the mail today. It's not much, but it's a thirty-five hundred dollar cheque, from the Montreal Music Festival!"

 Over the line he heard a high-pitched scream of delight.

 "I knew that you could do it, Vlad!" she commended his ability; and just him, as a man. "This news makes my day. If only you knew how happy I am!"

 "The better my life works out, the better I can share it with you, as my wife!" Vlad promised to her again.

 "Will you come over tonight?"

 "I'll sure try, Nat!" he pledged to her.

 Vlad's mother was watching him when he set down the receiver, and when he became aware of it, he felt uneasy.

 "Were you listening to my call?"

 His mother shrugged as if to answer that she did hear a part of it.

 "You woman?" she asked him.

 Vlad nodded his answer.

 "She is good woman?" she asked him.

 "Very good, momma!" he expressed to her.

 "Good." said his mother, in a relieved tone and then went back into the kitchen.

 Upon finishing another cup of coffee, Vlad left for the bank.

 The thirty-five hundred dollar cheque would just about cover what he had remaining to pay back on his student loan. In fact, he would have some four hundred dollars left over to put into his savings account.

 He thought of holding on to some money and to buy his fianc&#381;e a pretty little engagement ring, but then he thought again. Maybe it would be better if he took Natalie to a jewellery store and let her pick-it-out. She'd get a ring that she likes and the experience would bond their relationship even further.

 Vlad realised that his good fortune not only helped to cut his banking worries but also made the idea of his marrying Natalie seem more concrete, rather than dreamlike.

 After banking Vlad took off to Natalie's house.

 Now that he had more money, he splurged and took a taxi.

 He was taking a chance that she didn't go anywhere since he only spoke to her on the phone, some two hours ago.

 Vlad had forgotten, in the excitement of the moment, that he was working that evening and therefore he couldn't go to see her.

 Calling up the manager and telling him that he was sick, just didn't seem to be a good idea. One couldn't be sick every week, and Vlad had no desire of losing his job.

 Fortunately, Natalie was home.

 Early this morning her parents came back from Florida, all nicely tanned and full of smiles, and interesting stories.

 Natalie's parents were about the same age as his own parents -- in their mid-fifties. Natalie's folks, though, acted and looked like they were much younger. In fact, they looked like they were some ten or maybe fifteen years younger than their fifty-five years showed them to be.

 He wished that Natalie would've told him over the phone that they were back. He would have made himself more prepared, mentally, to see them both, again. He had fully understood how Natalie felt at his home on Saturday. She wanted to be accepted by his parents and he felt the same need within himself, when he first met her folks.

 Vlad was lucky with her folks, however. They had accepted him to a certain extent but they were under the impression that the relationship between him and their daughter wouldn't last very long.

 Ralph and Erma Page guessed, between themselves, that Natalie would start looking for another man a few weeks after she started seeing Vlad. Apparently, they were both wrong with their guess. Not only did Natalie like him, and stayed with him this long, but she had also consented to marrying him.

 This was their daughter Natalie. The girl that wouldn't even go steady with the most popular guy in her high school, has suddenly found somebody with whom she wanted to spend the rest of her life.

 Ralph and Vlad sat in the livingroom sipping cognac while the women were in the kitchen making lunch.

 Vlad had been asked to stay and eat with them.

 Natalie's parents were deeply interested in hearing more about him. They had wondered what was so special about him, that made him sweep Natalie off her feet, without even trying.

 Their daughter had told them little concerning Vlad and his future plans. All that she told them was that Vlad was a musician and naturally they had immediately pictured that he was a rock'n'roller.

 "Have you been a musician for a very long time?" Ralph asked him.

 "Most of my life, Mr. Page." Vlad responded then sipped some cognac.

 The liquor was good but Ralph had noticed that it was taking Vlad longer to drink it down than the time he was taking.

 Ralph poured himself another glass from the decanter on the table, beside the couch. He offered Vlad a refill by lifting the decanter towards him.

 "No thanks!" said Vlad. "I'm fine, here."

 "Don't you drink?" asked Natalie's father.

 "Not very much, Mr. Page!"

 Ralph was getting a little tired of being called Mr. Page, all the time. He asked Vlad to call him Ralph, since he was almost a part of the family, and formalities weren't necessary. He told Vlad that the same went for Erma.

 Vlad felt like he was pretty much accepted by Natalie's parents. They did seem to be friendlier, and wanted to be on first name basis when they talked.

 Before lunch, Ralph raked him over with all sorts of questions and Vlad always answered with a 'yes' or a 'no', or some other on-liner that didn't sink too deeply into the revelation of his character.

 Vlad was more relaxed with Natalie's folks.

 He had actually come over to share a little congratulations from Natalie, but talking with her folks was also pleasant.

 Erma and Natalie came out of the kitchen carrying some hot-looking dish.

 "Soups-on!" Natalie summoned the men to the table with her announcement.

 The lunch wasn't too bad. They had tomato coup, hamburgers, mashed potatoes and peas, and even though everything was fine, Vlad somehow knew that Natalie didn't make much of it.

 "Vlad just told me today that he won a prize from the Montreal Music Festival!" Natalie bragged to her parents, while brimming with pride for his accomplishment. "He got a cheque in the mail for three thousand, five hundred dollars."

 "Congratulations, Vlad!" Erma said to him, and then clapped a few times.

 "What are you going to do with the money?" Ralph questioned.

 Ralph shoved food into his face and Vlad swallowed what he had in his mouth, before he answered.

 "I already did it." he began. "I payed-off a fairly hefty loan that I had with the bank and I put what little there was left on my account. I was thinking of going to a jeweller with Natalie, sometime this week, and let her pick out an engagement ring!"

 "You don't have to do that!" Natalie voiced, making it sound like there was plenty of time to do that.

 "I promised you, Nat. I remember telling you that once I payed off my school debt we'd start looking around for a ring."

 "But you don't have to!" she began again.

 "Natalie!" her mother interrupted. "Don't argue with your man ... especially when he wants to get you jewellery!"

 "That's my wife, the Feminist, talking!" Ralph joked and Vlad couldn't help but chuckle at it.

 Erma and Natalie also tittered at what Ralph said, because it was truly humorous. Especially since Erma really was a Feminist. Erma had been into equal rights for women, long before it became the fashion. Her telling Natalie not to argue with her man was funny-enough before Ralph pointed out Erma's affiliations.

 Vlad had already known something about Natalie's parents. Over their seven weeks together, Natalie had told him whatever she could about her parents because Vlad was then able to behave a certain way with them. Ralph and Erma were liberal-minded, to a point, without condoning the total permissiveness that was apparent in society, as a whole.

 They had raised their two children Natalie and Ralph Junior, to make up their own minds about what to do and what not to do, in their lives.

 This attitude concerned the social interaction that they would have with their piers, as well as any sexual activities which may happen.

 Ralph Junior, who was nineteen and started University this year, studying space technology, had confessed to trying marijuana and a few other, so-called, mild drugs. He had also confessed to having bi-sexual sex, and to attending several crisco-oil parties, in the first couple of months in University. It was shocking, to know they had a child that did such things. They didn't approve of what he had done or what he was still doing, but they accepted it as being part of the cultural group with which he was associated. They loved their son, just the same.

 On-the-other-hand, Ralph and Erma knew that their older child, Natalie, grew up independent of self gratification. She thought things through before she did anything, and she had told her parents about what transpired between her and Vlad on New Year's Eve -- with Vlad's refusal in accepting her offer of sex. Because of that, Ralph and Erma knew that their daughter was still chaste and that Vlad appeared to be an honourable man. What's more, they weren't afraid to admit their shock at finding a straight young adult, in today's world.

 Vlad had explained his future plans to them, concerning his music. He had applied for a grant from the Canada Arts Council and it was mainly to supplement the cost, that he had estimated, to produce his musical on the stage.

 Natalie added to his remarks by telling her parents that Vlad's musical had won the prise and was now going on to the final competition.

 "The First prize in the finals, is Thirty Thousand Dollars, and I know that Vlad will get it!"

 Natalie's confidence in Vlad's ability rubbed-off onto her parents and they both in turn tried to boost Vlad's confidence.

 "I'm not going to hope for anything, right now!" said Vlad. "I would be more than just gratefuI to could get either one of those two things -- my grant, or first prize."

 "If you are as good s Natalie tells us, you stand a very promising chance!" Natalie's mother offered.

 "Maybe she said that because she likes me?" he wondered, glancing over at Natalie.

 "Hell, no, young man!" Natalie's father interjected. "My daughter has taste and a lot of brains. If she says you're good, then ..."

 "That's right!" Natalie agreed, a gigantic smile framing her face.

 "We'll see!" said Vlad, as he tried to suppress his own excitement.

 They finished lunch, then talked some more, and after the women finished the dishes in the kitchen, Natalie took Vlad up to her room for some personal conversation and also to give him some congratulative kisses.

 Ralph was very kind to Vlad, driving him to work that evening.

 Natalie came along for the ride and Erma stayed at home to put away their travel gear.

 Natalie was really happy, today. Vlad told her the good news about his small windfall and he also told her that he had a glimmer of acceptance from his mother, towards her. Vlad told Natalie about his mother overhearing their conversation over the telephone, this morning, and her positive response when he told her that Natalie is a very good girl.

 Life could have been one hundred percent better than what it was, at this time, but Vlad was thankful for what he had. He was thankful for the positive changes. He was thankful for seeing his life unfold.

 He wasn't planning on tempting providence any more than he already has. Not yet, anyway.

 Vlad knew that if he wanted to get ONCE A YOUNG LOVER, off the rack and into production, he'd have to start hustling and very soon.

 Hislife had taken an upswing today.

 Although he wished that something like this would've happened during University, when he desperately needed the money, he didn't complain as much as one would think he would.

 Since the first day that Vlad met Natalie, he had grown considerably. No longer did he question himself about whether or not he was a man. In many cases he had thought of himself as nothing more than a boy, but through his own soul-searching, with Natalie as his companion on their journey, he was able to say that he truly is a man.

 Cookie witnessed a difference in Vlad, this evening.

 "Something good happen to you?" Cookie asked him.

 Vlad was smiling throughout the opening of his shift and Cookie thought that he was smiling because he had some fun with some woman. He prodded Vlad several times with the same question until Vlad could no longer keep from telling him.

 "I compose music, Cookie. This morning I got a letter in the mail, from a contest where I have some work, and I won over three thousand dollars."

 A couple of other kitchen helpers heard the news, too, and began to walk around with diarrhoea induced expressions.

 Vlad had finally heard a couple of them exchange remarks about his news.

 "Turd!" one of them mumbled.

 "Guys like that have all the luck!" added another.

 'Congratulations, Slater!' Vlad thought to himself. 'Look-out behind you!'

 "I did wonder, how come you sing 'da opera. You, boy, have much brains!" Cookie was saying to him, while he was putting some finishing touches on a lobster plate. "You 'think we sing later?"

 "We'll see, Cookie. Big-cheese might not like it!"

 With the end of his answer, the boss came into the kitchen.

 "Have any of you guys seen Terrance?"

 The boss was asking if anyone knew where the pianist was, and he was beginning to think that he wouldn't come tonight.

 "Why you need Terrance when you have 'dis guy!" Cookie said, pointing the knife that he was holding towards Vlad.

 "I'm paying Terrance to play for the customers, Chef!" said the boss in a nasty voice.

 Cookie shook his head and tisked at him.

 "You pay Terrance to play, but Terrance is late every day!" Cookie made a little rhyme then jeered at him. Through the corner of his eye, Vlad saw two other helpers mocking him. They were constantly looking over at him, and laughing between themselves.

 "Say, Boss! -- Why don't you let Vladimir go out there and play for them." one of the guys said.

 Vlad was on the verge of anger but he began to think that it was a good idea.

 The other lame-brain added his two cent vocabulary to the idea.

 "He's sure is wastin' all his talen' back here, scrapin' junk!"

 The two guys ridiculed Vlad, and the boss watched Vlad simmer.

 "You do play piano, don't you?" said the boss, remembering back to Vlad's job application.

 Vlad nodded modestly and Cookie kept pushing to get Vlad up front.

 "I'll only go on for one number, Boss. Just one thing!"

 "What?" asked his boss.

 "I want Cookie to go up with me, for a duet."

 "Do you mean, to sing?" asked the boss, unsure of what to do.

 "Can we sing!" Cookie exclaimed. He made sure, with his intense tone that there was nothing at all to worry about.

 "Okay! I'll be back here in fifteen minutes to get you!" the boss said earnestly.

 Cookie and Vlad, cleaned themselves up. They washed the grease and other food residues from their hands, to make their appearance, neater.

 "You nervous?" Cookie asked him.

 "Not really!" said Vlad.

 "Me too, ne'der!"

 Terrance strolled-in through the kitchen, not saying a word to anyone since he considered them all far beneath him. He took off his coat and hung it on a coat hanger, in the employee closet.

 The boss came back into the kitchen and saw that Terrance had arrived.

 He stared at him for a moment, and saw that Vlad and Cookie were ready to get to the front.

 The two wise-guy helpers just watched. They were quietly holding back their mockery.

 "I don't want any explanations for your lateness." said the boss, then he looked over to Cookie and Vlad. "You play after Vlad and Cookie go on!"

 "Hey, my contract " Terrance started but the boss cutin.

 " -- Wipe you ass with it! Come on you two!"

 The boss lead Cookie and Vlad out onto the small riser and turned on the microphone.

 Vlad leaned closer to Cookie, while the boss was introducing them.

 "Say, Cookie. What do you want to do?"

 Cookie panicked for a moment then snapped his fingers.

 "Can a you do 'Torna a Surriento'?" he asked Vlad.

 Vlad shrugged and Cookie hummed a few bars for him and Vlad nodded that he knew it.

 "I don't know the words! -- You sing!" Vlad spurred him.

 Cookie agreed and stood beside the piano and waited for the boss to finish.

 "For a change of pace tonight, I had the good-fortune to be graced with a couple of my employees, with surprising talent. To open tonight's entertainment; may I introduce my singing chef, Cookie and on the piano, Vlad Peploh!"

 While the people at the table clapped, half-heartedly, the boss put his hand over the microphone and turned to his new performers.

 " You'd better be good!" he said to them, then walked away.

 Vlad overtured the introduction to 'Torna a Surriento', until it came to a head.

 Cookie watched Vlad's face for a signal, so that he would know when to start.

 Both Vlad's playing, and the wink that he gave Cookie signalled him to start singing.

 The entire restaurant was quiet and nobody moved while Cookie sang the piece in a noble, operatic tenor's voice.

 Although Vlad and Cookie looked funny in the dirty cover-aprons and cook-hats, they also looked like a couple of classics out of some old Hollywood movie. Some of the patrons had even believed that they were an act, and not the kitchen help.

 Cookie finished his song and bowed his head.

 Vlad tacked-on, to the end of the tune, a sustained denouement. It seemed to echo-on forever, until there was nothing.

 The people sitting at the tables applauded them and some even stood up and cheered them with glassfuls of wine and other such beverages.

 They both bowed to the customers and quickly made their way into the kitchen, to continue with their work.

 Terrance went to the piano, unannounced, and virtually unnoticed. He began to play some jazzy music that didn't seem to make sense, melodically, and he knew that no one was responding to him.

 In the kitchen, the boss was congratulating Cookie and Vlad for doing a fine job, and he gave them both a twenty dollar bill.

 "Maybe we can do a regular spot every night, you two?" the boss suggested.

 "Let's talk about it tomorrow!" Vlad answered.

 "We sing good, no?" Cookie asked with a big smile on his face as he thrust the twenty into his pocket. He continued humming 'Torna a Sorriento' and he also continued with some dishes that he was preparing earlier.

 Vlad briefly went over to the two kitchen-boys that were heckling him.

 "I'd like to thank you guys for helping to convince the boss to let us go out there!" Remind me, some day, to buy each of you a sucker!"

 Vlad glanced over to Cookie and raised his eyebrows to him.

 "One more time?" asked Vlad.

 Cookie consented with a nod and both of them continued to sing 'Torna a Sorriento'.

 

 

 CHAPTER ELEVEN

 The next couple of months went fairly well for Vlad.

 Through his boss's help, putting him and Cookie in front of the customers one a night, he made more money every week. Vlad, in addition to making money on his regular wage, earned some eighty additional dollars performing every week, onstage.

 Vlad was making better money than his father was making, working at Budd Automotive. He was pleased to see that Cookie was making a tidy little bundle, too, since he was going to turn sixty-five, very soon, and so be put on mandatory retirement. He had made a deal with his boss to let Cookie sing at The Steak House occasionally, even if Vlad was to leave.

 Things were lucrative for everyone. The Steak House saw more customers in coming for supper, every night, mostly coming for the free song treat the news of which quickly spread around town even catching the attention of the newspaper's hack critic. Vlad was doing well and he did not want to complain. However, believing that he could do better yet, he took the proverbial bull, by the horns, and went to promote his musical. Alone, Vlad had gone down town to the new Arts Centre to try to push his musical, upon the production coordinator. He walked into the beautiful building at around ten o'clock on a cold February Monday morning, and headed right for the production office. A well-dressed gentleman, who was in his forties was walking into the reception area from a private office, and he dropped a large manila envelope on the secretary's desk.

 "Can I help you?" she asked Vlad.

 "Yes, in a minute! I have to talk to him, first!" answered Vlad then he forced his way into the man's office, following closely behind him.

 "I don't have an appointment, sir, but you do understand that I wouldn't get anywhere if I were to go through the proper channels!" Vlad never gave him the chance to say anything. He thrust his hand to the man and he was compelled to comply. "My name is Vladimir Xavier Peploh, and I am a local composer with an original full-stage musical. I come to You because I assume you are the programme co-ordinator, or at least someone else of high authority, here. Am I correct?"

 The man nodded slightly to Vlad, and he was ready to say something but Vlad continued.

 He had noticed a name-plate on the man's desk: Mordecai Schnerer - General Manager.

 "Now, Mr. Schnerer, something about my background! -- I have a Bachelor of Arts, in music, from the University of Toronto. My specialties are solopiano, composer and my main goal is to carry a production as a conductor. The story that I have to offer is a clear and concise one, and the music -- if I may say so -- is very good, too!" Vlad eased back, giving himself and the man a chance to breathe. In the meantime Vlad kept the man's mind occupied by handing him the scripted version of the musical. "Would there be any possibility of producing this home-grown piece of music in this Centre?"

 There was quiet in the office for a moment, as the man leafed through the papers.

 He looked up from the manuscript then closed it.

 "Mr. Peploh -- is it?" he said and Vlad nodded. "Who the hell are you?" he continued.

 "I just told you, Mr. Schnerer! I'm a local composer with a musical to offer!" Vlad answered him.

 "You're an unknown, though! God knows I've never..." he stopped in midsentence and looked at him in an odd manner. "I was going to say that I don't know you, but you do look familiar!"

 "I'm not looking to be recognised, Mr. Schnerer. I'm looking for my work to be recognised. I think that you are the type of man to understand that!" Vlad informed him further of his motives. "You don't mind if I sit down, do you?" Schnerer motioned to the chair beside the desk and Vlad sat.

 "Boy, that feels good!"

 "What makes you think that this centre could risk putting on this production? You're an unknown -- have you ever sold anything?" Vlad responded with a negative head shake.

 "I did win second prise in this year's preliminaries in the Montreal Music Festival. On that musical, in fact!" Vlad hoped that this information would help.

 "That's nothing, Mr. Peploh. You have no track record."

 "Stuff that professionals put on, also fail, at times. It doesn't matter how experienced they are, you know."

 "It would be too expensive to produce, as a long shot!"

 "I don't think so, Mr. Schnerer! If we use all local talent and the local symphony, and if I run the production, we'd be saving quite a bundle. Not only that, if it's a success, we'd be making a greater profit."

 "Let me guess -- you've covered all the angles, and have an answer for every one of my remarks?"

 "No!" admitted Vlad. "At this stage, I'm not experienced enough to do that. I do admit it, honestly, but I do know the rough cost, if we were to produce it with amateurs -- talented amateurs, that is!"

 "And?" Schnerer was curious.

 "I'd say, between sixty and seventy thousand dollars!"

 "That is expensive!"

 "Yes, but it could be more! Anyway, I'm willing to put up almost half the cost!" Vlad offered to Schnerer.

 Schnerer laughed in a manner that was much like a ridicule and a disbelief.

 "Where are you going to get money like that? Are you rich, personally?" inquired Schnerer. "I've applied for a thirty thousand dollar grant from the Canada Arts Council, which I am hoping I will receive!"

 "What makes you think that you'll get it?" Schnerer was beginning to tax Vlad's nerves with his insipid questioning.

 "I've sent a copy of that musical to them as my cover material. I'm hoping that my B.A. will help, and besides, I seem to be getting luckier! Finally!"

 Schnerer leafed through Vlad's manuscript once more and looked over some of his notes on staging.

 "Have you ever directed stage before?" he asked Vlad.

 "Since I hate to lie, Mr. Schnerer, I must tell you that I have not. In that same light, I'd like to say, give me a prompt-book and freedom, and I could do it. I know how to!"

 "You have lots of spunk, for a greenhorn!" Schnerer began to praise him mildly, with indications of 'but', in his voice.

 "Look, Mr. Schnerer -- let's not pussy-foot around, anymore. If you weren't even mildly interested in this, you would've had me putout long ago!"

 They looked at each other; not with hate, but with an understanding and mutual respect.

 It became quiet in there and thoughts were so cluttered that they could probably be out of the air, with a knife.

 "I tell you what ..." said Schnerer. "I'll give this musical of yours the once-over... twice... and I'll see if it merits production. All I can say is, I'll call you!"

 Let's just hope that it'll be soon, sir!" Vlad announced. "You have a cassette of the music, in the back pouch, and by the way, that whole thing is copyrighted!" Vlad informed him in a friendly way. "That's to save the producer some time!"

 "I'll see what can be done, but I can't promise you anything!"

 Vlad shook hands with Schnerer and headed for the door.

 Before he exited the office he turned to Schnerer, once more, and hit him with something profound to think about.

 "One more thing, Mr. Schnerer -- and artist, like a prophet, is rarely accepted in his home town. Don't you think that there should be acceptance at home, first?" With this, Vlad exited the office and closed the door behind him.

 Passing out of the reception area, he winked at the secretary, smiling at him.

 "Be a good girl!" he advised and she gave him a shy little smirk that promised otherwise.

 

 

 CHAPTER TWELVE

 It was the second week of March and the weather was starting to act funny, in its usual way.

 Each day that passed by had its combination of sunshine and warmth, clouds and rain. Winds came and went, fluctuating in accordance to the intensity in which mankind was ruining the earth.

 Vlad was at home and Natalie was with him.

 They were down in his basement watching television on the American Public Broadcasting channel and Vlad had convinced Natalie to watch it with him.

 She had never been fully exposed to that type of thing before, not liking it mostly because she usually didn't understand it.

 Through Vlad's explanations, though, she saw what the true idea behind opera was, and ended up enjoying the music, and everything else.

 It was a Sunday night. Natalie and Vlad planned to share it between themselves like they had many other evenings. Both were going to stay up to whatever hour ordered them to sleep, and Natalie was going to stay over-night.

 Vlad's parents thought that it was all okay, since they had gotten to know Natalie and did find that she truly was a nice girl. During an intermission, in the program, Natalie went to the bathroom and Vlad relaxed by banging out some tune on his Horner.

 In the middle of it all, Vlad's mother called him upstairs. He had a telephone call from someone who said that it was important.

 Vlad wasn't planning on taking any calls, although he never received many, excepting for Natalie's, once a day. He took this call, seeing that Natalie was taking her time getting back from the porcelain factory, in China.

 "Hello, Vladimir Peploh?" the voice asked over the phone and Vlad replied affirmatively.

 "Mr. Peploh, this is Mordecai Schnerer speaking."

 "Yes! Hello, there!" Vlad said calmly then waited for Schnerer to come to the point.

 "I have been thinking about your musical, and have actually discussed it with a few other people. Your work truly has possibilities and the Centre may be willing to try an amateur production, providing that you can come up with half the production cost, like you offered. Just let us know a few weeks in advance, if you do receive your grant, and we will start discussing the business arrangements as well as audition announcements."

 "Well, thankyou very much for your help and confidence!" Vlad said to him in a non-excited sounding tone of voice, then after they were finished, he hung up and headed back to Natalie.

 In the basement, Natalie was sitting alone on the couch waiting for him.

 "I was just on the phone." he said, sitting down beside her. "The Centre is willing to put on my musical, providing that I put up half for the production cost! That is, if I get my grant!"

 "YEA!" she shrieked to him, joining to it an embrace that nearly smothered him.

 "I hope that I can get that grant, in June! The first performance can be sometimes in the fall, then!" Vlad planned.

 "I'm looking forward to it, Vlad." she said, bonding herself. "But I'm looking forward to marrying you, even more!"

 

 

 CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 The next month went by slowly, but Vlad and Natalie still had some memorable days.

 They spent more time discussing their future together, of which had no extravagances included. Natalie had promised him that they would live modestly even when he became a millionaire. Their hopes for the future were, indeed, great.

 They talked about setting a date and it was a toss-up between the end of the month, or sometimes in the summer. There was even some talk about a Halloween wedding, but that was more in joking. Both of them agreed that it would be at the end of July. It was mid-March. A great deal of snow was being melted away, by the rain that seemed to come earlier this year.

 This was going to be one hell-of-a-year, Vlad believed, and he knew that he wouldn't miss it for all the world. Finally, he thought, life was going to be run his way.

 He was sceptical about winning anything further at the Montreal contest, but he was confident in receiving a grant.

 Natalie was in Montreal, right now, on her own fortune hunting.

 There was some kind of exhibit at McGill University and Natalie had several paintings and prints on display.

 She was going to be away over the week and she'd miss Cookie's send-off party at The Steak House.

 Cookie's retirement overlapped at the same time when Natalie just had to leave for a personal appearance session at the exhibition. Vlad was being given a couple of nightsoff, so to speak, to accompany Cookie on a full evening of Italian Opera and to be the master of ceremony at the party.

 Natalie did so want to see it all, and she wanted to stay, but Vlad convinced her that she needed her own exposure-boost, at this time, and that the week apart would draw them even closer together. She had been gone for four days and Vlad was aching from how much he missed her.

 The opera night was just great, and last night's retirement party was fun, too.

 Cookie wasn't sorry for retiring. Having been asked to make an appearance ever-so-often at the restaurant, assured him that he wouldn't be lonely.

 It seemed like everyone in town knew about Cookie -- the singing chef. Vlad was a backgrounder but it hardly bothered him. He enjoyed watching Cookie getting praised because Cookie deserved it, and also because he learned how he should behave, if ever it were to happen to him. Vlad had awakened early on this Monday morning and worked on his pet project, which was a ballet that would not be released until it becomes a masterpiece that would shame all other masters' masterpieces.

 He had told Natalie the reason for his doing this, when she requested that he explain it to her. "To leave a mark on the world, in anything that you want to do, you must think of it in the future sense. With each day that goes by, you learn something new and become wiser. With this, comes some kind of improvement. When you die, you leave behind a final piece of work that, hopefully, would be considered a work of genius."

 Natalie understood his reasoning. Being an artist, herself, she could relate to the idea of coming face to face with mortality, and so become friends with it. An artist who does not have mortality as a friend, can never dream to attain immortality.

 It was a philosophy, probably shared by a countless number of artists and thinkers, who truly could not realise the reality of afterlife.

 Vlad's ballet had a beautiful tune to it, and the story was of a theme that Vlad commonly liked to use; an individual is born, grows up and dies, and often without fully realising any truth about life.

 "You got mail!" Vlad's mother yelled down into the basement, in Hungarian.

 Vlad slowly made his way up to the head of the stairs where his mother had left for him a little pile of letters. He took the pile downstairs, having only glanced over the top letter that was from the University.

 "What do they want?" he mumbled to himself.

 He opened the letter and began to read.

 'Dear Mr. Peploh,

 I have taken the liberty of applying, on your behalf, for a

 position as Orchestral Co-Ordinator in the Chilliwack, Camber

 Music Society.

 I am happy to inform you that you are a top consideration, and if you accept the offer, the position would surely be given to you.

 If you fail to reply, in person, to the Faculty at the University, by March 19, 1982, it will be assumed that you have refused the offer and consideration will be opted to the person, next on the list.

 I hope to see you!

 Sincerely

 Charles Pierce

 Dean Of Music Faculty'

 "So you've become dean, eh?" Vlad said as he looked at today's date on the calendar: March 22.

 He shook his head, acknowledging that these placement letters were always right on target.

 "I bet Mozart couldn't get a placement through you assholes!" Vlad said bitterly then chucked the letter into the waste-paper basket. "This one gets filed!"

 Vlad was mostly a methodical person and looking through the mail was no different. He never looked over his pile before opening his mail. He always looked at whatever he received, in the order that he found them.

 There was a smaller envelope with Natalie's return address, here in town, pastes on the top left hand corner. He opened it and started to read:

 'Darling Vlad,

 I'll be home by the twenty-fifth.

 I can hardly wait to see you again, and have you hold me, and

 play your sweet music for me. My paintings are selling, but

 not very quickly and not for very much. All I could do to

 promote them, I have already done.

 My cousin, Dianna, says "HI!", and wants you to write to her.

 I told her all about you and I think that she wants to steal you for herself.

 I'll see you Thursday, my love!

 All my love, Natalie

 (Your one and only)'

 Vlad wasn't disappointed about missing-out on that orchestral job in Chilliwack. He wasn't much on taking his piano to a place where strange men walked around with chainsaws hanging off their belts.

 He was ecstatically happy with Natalie's letter. It was the first one that he's ever received from her and he wasn't going to lose it. That letter he slipped into his piano bench.

 When he was opening the other letter he had noticed a fairly long one, at the very bottom of the pile. He recognized the logo of the Montreal Music Festival, on the return address, and for the first time, Vlad took that letter out of turn and opened it.

 It was a heavy letter with several pages stapled together.

 'Dear Mr. Peploh,

 After long deliberation and professional scrutiny, we have found your musical : ONCE A YOUNG LOVER, to be the best entry in the 1981-82 Festival. Meeting the fullest requirements and standards as set by the Canadian Committee of Music, we wish to inform you that you have won FIRST PRIZE in the Montreal Music Festival's 1981-82, Finals Competition.

 Enclosed you will find a thirty-five thousand dollar bond, that you are to use in developing a full stage production of your musical.

 Arrangements can be made with the Festival Commission, for the promotion and touring of Canada's major cultural centres. Please contact the Commission upon the receipt of this announcement. Congratulations, and good luck.

 Yours Truly

 Morgan Leighton-Bishop

 Festival Commission Supervisor'

 Vlad screamed with delight and after he ran upstairs to show his folks, he went downtown, photocopied the bond, so he could later show it to Natalie, and then ran down to The Centre In The Square.

 He kissed Schnerer's secretary on the cheek when she tried to stop him from going into the office unannounced, and then burst into Schnerer's office.

 Schnerer looked up from his desk and crumpled up some paper that he was writing on.

 They didn't say anything. Vlad just smiled and held the bond up so that Schnerer could see it.

 Schnerer knew what it was and he smiled.

 

 

 CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 Deals were set up and auditions were underway at the Centre for Vlad's musical. Vlad and Natalie were still trying to see as much as they could of one another but, now, there did not seem to be as much time, open to them.

 There were times when they were so happy that they wanted to share their brief moment by sharing their bodies, as well, but they both managed to sustain one another with little simplicities, which meant just as much as sex, to them both. They did not want to spoil their weddingnight experience and keeping chaste was becoming, for them, like a second nature. It added mystery to their relationship, too.

 Since Vlad had his bond cashed, he held on to fifteen thousand dollars for personal expenses. With the money, he bought a used car and found a pretty little two bedroom apartment.

 To show their happiness and their appreciation for their son's success, the Peplohs bought Vlad some seat-covers for his new car and they also gave to him some furniture for his new apartment.

 Schnerer had given Vlad a video-tape system to record his development work with his chosen amateur performers, which was just what he was currently doing.

 Vlad was working with the girl that was going to be the heroine in his musical. She was up in his apartment, frustrating Vlad with each note that she belched-out.

 Natalie was in the apartment hanging framed pictures of Luciano Pavarotti, Mo Kauffman and Yehudi Menuhin, on his walls.

 She was practising being a homemaker while Louise Mauser was practising to be Canada's Beverly Sills, although she still had a very long way to go.

 Across town, Cookie was helping Vlad by lending his vocal experience to the training of the musical's hero's voice.

 Trevor Rosenthal had never received formal training before his session with Cookie. His only vocal experience came from singing in a rock group, with which he was no longer involved. The leads and the rest of the cast in Vlad's musical had potential but the payoff could only come from their hard work and dedication.

 Some of the young performers that were chosen had to give up certain little habits during training for the big show. A few had to cut down on booze, some had to go slow on cigarettes and still a few others, like Rosenthal, were told to stop smoking pot or else he was no longer in the show.

 Dedication to the stage was tested by these restrictions and a surprising number within the cast remained, adhering to the rules imposed by the management, by Cookie and of course, by Vlad.

 The month of April was gruelling for Vlad trying to select a good cast from the scores of so-called 'local talent' that came to audition for the various parts.

 Many of the better applicants were, unfortunately, students from highschool. Those that made it from that group of people, could only be given very small parts, since they were only able to make it to workshops and rehearsals on the weekends, and possibly one night a week.

 Even though Vlad had heard a few very good prospects for lead, in that group, he could not risk choosing them and he could not ask any of them to give up the last couple of months of school.

 Amongst 'the others', Vlad had found that Louise and Trevor were about the best. Both were young in appearance and were out of school. In fact, both of them were nineteen years old and had not yet realised their adulthood, within their own minds.

 Their voices were rough and needed work, Vlad was relieved when Cookie accepted to help coach Trevor, and both were doing relatively well with their performers.

 Each man also worked with a couple of extra people on the cast, so that they could be the lead's understudies, in the event that sickness or super-stage fright set in, on the performance night.

 There wasn't much time available to Vlad to do everything that he wanted to do, to the quality that he wanted to do it. There were several times when Vlad had a tantrum onstage during the blocking rehearsals and because of this, many cast-members learned to respect his wishes. Vlad had found that one of the easiest things to do in a professional situation, to someone not doing their job, was to fire them. He fired a few, but later when these individuals humbled themselves in apology towards him, he rehired them. Afterwards, everyone was behaving and working like a charm.

 Natalie watched the backstage troubles and the glories that happened. She enjoyed it. A few times she had brought along a sketch-pad and drew what she saw happening. At other times, she brought a camera and just took pictures. Either way, she had compiled a voluminous stack of reference material for her painting work.

 She had taken a beautiful candid picture of Vlad, which she took with a telephoto lens. It was a sombre but emotional picture of Vlad watching the action taking place on the stage.

 Natalie was going to surprise Vlad with a painting of him, in that reposed stance, while watching his two lead characters in their most dramatic scene.

 There wasn't very much time allowed to Vlad to concentrate on making his first musical a winner.

 The performance date was set by Schnerer, to take place on the last weekend of June. That time was soon approaching. Opening night, on June 24, was just a couple of weeks away. Vlad had managed to get the symphony to a razorsharp readiness for that night, and every symphonic member knew the story in the musical, just like they knew the natures of their instruments.

 They were ready and Vlad had appreciated their professional attitude towards the production.

 The musicians knew that this was Vlad's first time at something large, like this musical, and they honoured Schnerer's request not to hassle Vlad unnecessarily. In short, they agreed to co-operate and offer their fullest support to him. Afterall, they were going to get a tidy little cut from the returns, and they wanted to do their best.

 Trevor, according to Cookie, had come along fine, and just needed to brush up on a few final touches in his onstage presentation.

 Vlad was having some trouble with Louise, however, and he just didn't know what that trouble was with her.

 He had chosen her during the auditions because she looked and sounded the part, that was the main character within his story. He worked over her presentation and her voice almost every evening, at his new apartment but she'd reach a point of fair performance, and then she'd spoil on him. Several times he talked with her and asked if there was anything wrong,but supposedly everything was just fine.

 Natalie watched Vlad's rehearsing Louise at his apartment and she had found the experience very interesting. She had also found out that Vlad was quite a task-master when it came to fine-tuning a performer. Especially one that was important to the production.

 One week before the first performance was supposed to happen, Vlad still had Louise under his scrutiny.

 It was a terrible Wednesday night when he had Louise come over for one final personal session.

 When she had arrived at Vlad's apartment, Natalie was there, again. Every time that she went over to Vlad's place that dark-haired 'person' was there. It made Louise feel very uncomfortable.

 Louise had a crush on Vlad, caused by close and intimate contact in their rehearsing, and Natalie's presence made her nervous.

 Natalie liked Louise and thought that she was a good choice for the production. She had never suspected that Louise wanted Vlad. It was raining outside that night and the weather called for a mild electrical storm. That meant that Vlad had to push Louise much harder at the beginning of their session. He did not want to have any time wasted in the event of a power shortage, because then he couldn't see what she was doing.

 He crammed the beginning of the evening with all the music that Louise had problems handling.

 Natalie watched and finally started to get alarmed because that poor girl Louise looked like she was on the verge of breaking down.

 "What the hell is wrong with you, Louise?" Vlad demanded of her. "Are you stupid or aren't you trying?"

 "Please don't scream at me!" stuttered Louise.

 "Well how do you expect me to bare this shit you're giving me? I know that you can give me what I'm looking for, Louise. You have what it takes to do this role. So you'd better fucking-well give it to me or I'll put that other blonde chick in your place. Understudy or not, at least she seems to be trying harder!"

 "Vlad!" Natalie cried out at him. "You are being too hard on her. Take it easy!"

 "I don't need your damned help!" Louise meekly barked at her.

 Vlad ran his hands through his hair and scratched his scalp in frustration.

 "Natalie! I don't tell you how to paint! I'd appreciate the same sense from you by not telling me how hard I should, or shouldn't, be on someone!"

 Natalie's face went blank.

 She pushed herself off the couch, grabbed her coat that was over the back of the couch and then stormed out of the apartment. Vlad, realising what he had done, rushed for the door to catch her and apologise, but with an unexpected flash of lightning, the lights cut-out. They were only off for a few seconds but he fell over the chair beside the couch and missed reaching her. When the lights came back on, Louise was kneeling over him, helping him upe from the floor. She held his head close to her chest for a moment asking him if he was alright, but he pulled himself away and went to sit down on his piano bench.

 There was some silence in the apartment for a while.

 Vlad listened to the rain and echoing thunder outside, then fully returned to attending to Louise's voice.

 "The entire story depends on the way that you handle your part, Louise. Do you understand that?" Vlad said to her and watched her nod. "There was one day last week, right in this apartment, actually, when you were just superb. Then the next day you were like tonight!"

 "Your girlfriend wasn't here on Tuesday. That's why I did better!" she said to him.

 "I don't follow you!"

 "Last week I had fantasised that you'd take me to bed if I did a good job. Your friend, Natalie, wasn't here and I was comfortable with you!"

 Vlad looked down to the key-board and sighed.

 "I've been bringing you here to train you to become comfortable with your part not with me!" he retorted.

 "I'd be willing to make it with you, now, if you want." she said to him. "Blondes do it better, you know!"

 "So I have heard!" he said, rubbing his eyes, then he continued. "Look ... I don't know if you'll understand this... I cannot allow any personal feelings towards my cast to side-track me during the production. I've never done a production like this before, so I want to do it right!"

 "I think that I understand what you mean!" Louise said, preening her tight light-blue pull-over.

 Vlad got an idea. It was unlike him, since it was devious but he knew that he could have some time on Louise if he were to tell her something that she anted to hear.

 "You know, Louise. Nothing turns me on more than a good performance. If you still want to go to bed, maybe something can be arranged after all of this stuff is finally over. That's providing that you're great during the next week's performances." he said to her and she smiled.

 She went to give him a kiss but he moved his head away. "After the performances, Louise!" he reminded her.

 "Okay!"

 "We'll get nowhere tonight, with all this so I suppose that you can leave. I still have some stuff to work on, anyway!" Vlad was nicely telling her to get ready to leave.

 "Will you drive me home?" she asked him with a smile that seemed to force sensuality to its limit.

 "I don't have the time tonight, but I'll call you a cab."

 He got up from the bench and flipped open the telephone book and found a number to a taxi service. He called it up and after hanging up he gave to Louise a twenty dollar bill. "This is for the taxi and you can keep whatever change is left!"

 "Thanks!" she accepted and winked at him.

 He helped her on with her coat, holding-on to the gentlemen image that he initiated to everyone on his production. He showed her to the door.

 "I will see you tomorrow!" she said with an anxious smile.

 "Yes... bye-bye! he said then closed the door, and added to his adieu. "You whore!"

 Vlad returned to the telephone and punched up Natalie's number.

 "Hello!" a woman's voice answered. It was Erma.

 "Hello, Mrs. Page. This is Vlad!" he said.

 "Oh, Vlad? Anything the matter?" she asked him, knowing that Natalie was supposed to be with him.

 "I had a little fight with Natalie, a while ago. I said some things... I'm calling to apologize to her -- is she home?" It would mean the world to me, and I would very much appreciate it!" he almost sounded as if he was pleading.

 "I'll see what I can do!" Erma promised him.

 "I'll call again at eleven if she doesn't call me!"

 "I'll try to have her on the line!" Erma promised and they both hung up their phones.

 

 

 CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 Vlad had absolutely no luck in getting a hold of Natalie, to tell her that he was sorry about what he had said, and to make amends to her. Erma told Vlad that he must have said something pretty terrible to get Natalie angry with him, because natalie had refused all calls from him.

 It was also very obvious that Vlad's constant calling had made her very angry.

 Several days before the opening night, Vlad told Erma that he'd like to see them all at the performance because it was the first show of his career.

 He had always waited for a day like opening night, ever since he was just a kid, first learning to play the piano.

 However, a strange turn had taken place in his life, in the last year. He had met a lovely and good woman that helped him to forget all of his childhood pleasures, and so helping him to bring out the man from within himself. He and Natalie had spent many hours talking about sharing Vlad's glories and also the glories that Natalie would attain through her art.. Yet, Natalie was gone, now.

 Opening night had come and gone, and although the audience raved like a bunch of lunatics, over Vlad's musical, it didn't excite him half-as-much, with Natalie's absence.

 It would've been a sufficient substitute for paradise providing that Natalie, Vlad's beautiful dark-haired and dark, almond-eyed angel would have been at the reception afterwards.

 This evening meant little without his Natalie there, to share it all with him.

 Vlad had gone to Natalie's home the day after opening night to talk to her face-to-face. He had thought that he had become impersonal with her, trying to say that he was sorry, over the phone.

 He was given a tremendous shock, however, when Ralph told him that she had gone to stay with her cousin, Dianna, in Montreal, for a few days. In his heart, he was devastated. He had known what it was like to be left and nothing made him feel better, afterwards.

 In the spur of the moment, when his heart sank into its lowest recess of despair, Vlad had considered taking up Louise on her offer. However, Vlad still loved Natalie. He didn't think that it was fair to give up on a good thing, like his relationship with Natalie, for a few fleeting moments of sexual comfort with a girl like Louise.

 He wouldn't trade his sweet brunette love for a million blondes. He had let Kelly pass from him a second time, because his love was so strong for Natalie; it had helped to prevent him recognizing Kelly, at The Steak House.

 It was upon this rationalisation that Vladimir had known, for sure, that his love for Natalie was true.

 Now, his heart felt like it was ripped out of his body and fed to a pack of bitches, in heat.

 Cookie and Schnerer had noticed Vlad's lack of delight on opening night. They told him that he did a remarkable job and that the audience went crazy over the show. Even the critic from the newspaper -- who rarely, if ever, said something positive about the shows he saw -- gave Vlad's: ONCE A YOUNG LOVER, a very favourable review.

 Vlad had told both men what the problem was and they told him not to worry very much.

 "She will come back to you!" assured Cookie, as if he had an inside tip about it.

 "There are plenty of women, in this world!" was what Schnerer had said to him, and adding, "I've seen the way that cute little Louise looks at you!"

 Vlad got ill thinking about any possible relationship between him and Louise. Now that he had made it into the music profession, all that Vlad wanted was the peace of mind, and the love, which being with Natalie had offered him.

 The Festival Commission had arranged several other cities in Canada, from Vancouver to St. John's, for Vlad's musical to be performed.

 There were a few speculations that it was going to be one of the hottest musicals to come out of Canada, in a long while. Yet, all of it seemed to be meaningless without Natalie.

 With every performance that was made to an audience, more recognition went to this young man's achievement in composing, and in staging. It was, indeed, a success that was home-grown, and there were people calling-in to the Centre requesting tickets, and suggesting that the musical be held-over.

 The musical, though, was on a limited opening engagement, at the Centre In The Square. It was supposed to play for only four days, from June 24 to June 27. All that was changed, to more suitably accommodate the public was and extra couple of shows were added on the Saturday and Sunday, as matinee performances.

 Phenomenally, all the seats were sold out from the very first performance on opening night.

 What's more, on the day after opening night, on Friday morning, Vlad received a letter from the Canada Council, informing him that he had received his desired grant.

 Between that money and the money that his musical was bringing in from the production, Vlad had proverbially become an overnight success, as well as becoming a wealthy man.

 The closing night was a festive night for everyone, and there wasn't a single person on the stage crew or in the cast that wasn't disappointed to see the fun end.

 Everyone was running around trying to make everything as ship-shape as they could, and the atmosphere was like opening night's, all over again. Everybody wanted the musical to end as it had begun, with a roaring bang, and Vlad was beginning to feel the same way.

 Still, he wanted to have Natalie, by his side, during it all.

 Vlad was running around backstage finishing-off a few details before he was to make his appearance in the orchestra-pit, which signalled that the show was about to begin. Cookie was backstage telling everyone, if they don't do a good job he'll break all their legs. So much for Cookie's saying 'good luck' to everyone.

 There wasn't much time left before the show was to be underway and Vlad felt that he just had to call up Natalie's place, one more time.

 He made a quick jaunt to the production office and closed the door. He dialled Natalie's number, several times, but there was no answer.

 "Natalie! I am sorry!" he said aloud, with tearladen eyes which just couldn't be brought to a full cry for some reason.

 There was a knock at the plate-glass windows of the office. It was Vlad's assistant director and he was holding up five fingers.

 Vlad only had five minutes to get to the pit, and start the show.

 He put his head down on his arms and felt sorry for himself. He could not understand the reason for his split from Natalie, coming from just what he saidto her. It just didn't appear to be that much insulting, but he could now see that it was. Vlad wished that he could feel what she felt, so that he could manage the situation with a little more confidence. Someone came into the office and before Vlad had the chance to look up he heard who it was.

 "I'm surprised that you haven't had a nervous breakdown by now, Mr. Peploh!" Schnerer was beginning to holler at him. "I understand that you have a personal life, too, but now that you're in this business, you have to learn to keep them separate!"

 Boy -- did that sound familiar, though Vlad.

 "Do you realise that I don't feel like I've enjoyed my own performances?" Vlad stated to him.

 "Look her, Vladimir. This is a profession that is more demanding than any wife. It's loaded with heart-breaks and disappointments, but also overflowing with joy and success." Schnerer was on his own pulpit. "This life has to be given your fullest attention if it's expected to love you back, and give you all of its support. Whatever women are in your life, must take a second place to it!" Schnerer tried to explain to Vlad something that he has already known about for many years.

 "Mordecai... I do love Natalie Page -- as much as I love music. I've had them both relate to me and to one another without ever having problems -- except for now. I don't want to lose either, but I don't want to give up either one, for the other."

 "Bigamy is a felony, in Canada, my friend!"

 "That's funny like stinking is to shit, Mordecai." said Vlad, nastily. "I am not married to either, Mordecai. Natalie was supposed to be my wife, my companion. My career is supposed to be my relative in a different way -- something like a sister or daughter!"

 "I see." Schnerer responded and looking at his watch, continued. "You're on, NOW!"

 Vlad nodded, straightened his tux and headed to the area beneath the stage and stepped onto the platform of the orchestral pit. Each of the orchestra members smiled at him, and he mirrored their action. The platform slowly rose and Vlad looked out towards the audience.

 That was a strange sensation, being in the pit. Looking out, all he could see was the audience; the people all seemingly possessing the same face.

 He saw Cookie, his folks and Natalie's parents, too, sitting in some special seats that he obtained for them. Natalie, however, was nowhere to be seen.

 When the audience saw the conductor step onto the orchestra pit platform, they all applauded, knowing that the show was about to begin. Also, from the programs that the audience was given before the show, they knew that Vladimir Peploh was the conductor.

 The audience was now aware who Vladimir Peploh was, within their community. Someone that young, accomplishing what Vlad had was amazing and the people of Kitchener began to think of Vlad as the best example of what their city could produce. From no one to someone, exploiters were always there to take credit for something they had little -- or nothing at all -- to do with.

 Vlad set in motion the overture of his musical. After the fourth time, the feeling had started to become a routine; and for sure, thought Vlad, this sixth and final performance would be the best. Everybody that was involved with the production knew exactly what to do and when to do it, and the whole kinetics of the production worked like a well-oiled machine. During the production Vlad had forced himself to forget about Natalie, and like in the previous five performances, he managed to do it. If Vlad couldn't take his mind off Natalie, he could never have devoted his fullest concentration to his work. Vlad knew that he could not survive the idea of failure. Even though his musical wasn't being performed according to the perfection that he desired, he was fully aware that no one else -- not one of his colleagues -- could have ever accomplished it, in quite the same way that he did.

 Tonight's performance could only be described as astounding. Not a single flaw came from anybody's performance, and at the end, the audience stood in applause for Vlad and for the other performers.

 The entire cast had several curtain calls, each of them moving from total cast call, finally down to the two main players, Trevor and Louise. Upon the end of these calls, the audience continued to stand in ovation calling on the author of the production to take a bow. Vlad did not want to go on stage, but after he had left the orchestra pit, Mordecai told him that it would be a good idea for him to say a few words to the people.

 Vlad submitted and waited in the left wing of the stage while Schnerer went out to introduce him.

 "Ladies and Gentlemen... only once in a lifetime does someone of this man's talent and personality come-along. Rarely is such a man blessed by the acceptance of the people within his own community. Vladimir Xavier Peploh is such a man. His abilities to overcome setbacks and times of depravations and problems, makes this man synonymous to the words; confidence, determination and resilience. I am sure that we all shall continue to hear about this young Canadian artist-musician. Ladies and Gentle, I give you, Vladimir Xavier Peploh!"

 Vlad slowly made his way onstage.

 He watched all the people standing before him and applauding him. If there were anything in the entire world that could have boosted a man's ego, strengthen his pride and give to him the ultimate confidence, this was it.

 He shook hands with Mordecai and thanked him, then turned towards the audience. He took-in as much praise as he could, in the few seconds before he lifted his hands to them.

 Soon, the people were all seated quietly waiting for the man to speak.

 Vlad gazed at the audience, trying to look into each and every face that was before him. He was looking for Natalie, but he could not see her. The only people that he saw, which he recognized were Cookie, his parents and Natalie's parents. He also saw a few of his University piers -- amongst them, Slater. Vlad laughed to when he saw Slater. His heart nudged a full smile when he saw the envy beaming from Slater's face. It made Vlad wonder why Slater had come to the performance. Rupert Attonbury was beside him, with Melina Rossi. He saw how she began to size-him-up, as he stood there onstage. Forget it, he thought.

 "A man learns a great deal during his life. He learns even more when he's allowed the privilege of attending an institution such as a University, that not only helps expand his mind, but also teaches him how to grin and bare his set-backs. Yet, even with all this intellectual wisdom that we are obliged to accept, there is nothing like love to spur a man on to success. Love gives a man direction in life, and gives him something to work for, other than himself. In the same time, work can be a factor that can cause problems between a couple that really loves one another. That is why I would like to dedicate this evening's show to my fianc&#381;, Natalie Page. My life is yours, my love!"

 The audience began to applaud and they looked about the theatre to see his woman stand up, or step onto the stage. Instead, what they saw happen, was Vlad's departure from the stage, after bowing to them.

 He went down to the rehearsal hall where there was a reception for important guests and friends. He wanted to get this over with and return to his dressing room and sulk.

 Schnerer's secretary was already down in the hall talking with a couple of reporters, who didn't waste any time going down there after Vlad finished his speech.

 When Vlad arrived several people surrounded him and began asking him questions about his past, his present and about his future plans. They took many pictures, too.

 They wanted to know all the details about Vlad's life; his growing up in Manitoba and about his moving around until his family finally came to Kitchener.

 The reporters also wanted to know about Natalie and who she was, but Vlad never said much about her. The only thing that he did say was that she was his fiance and that he loved her.

 When all the mundane questioning was over and the reporters took to the booze, Vlad mingled with Schnerer and the others that were invited to this party.

 Vlad spoke to the Mayor and other local dignitaries that requested Vlad to do a personal performance for them, with Cookie -- having seen them both perform at The Steak House.

 Vlad and Cookie both promised them their consideration, but nothing more.

 The party was coming to an end in the rehearsal hall and several people had left.

 However, before Vlad's piers left, they came to him to congratulate him on a phenomenal accomplishment.

 "This has been some evening!" Rupert said to Vlad. "Deep down, I had a feeling that you'd make it. I just didn't know that it would be this soon!"

 "Well thanks! I'll take that as a compliment, for now."

 He shook hands with Rupert and Melina Rossi watched while holding-onto Rupert's arm.

 She gave Vlad a kiss near his ear and whispered to him.

 "If you still love me, I'm available for you."

 Vlad smiled at her and kissed her in the same way, whispering his answer to her. "Stick to screwing amateurs." he said to her, but still smiling.

 Rupert was alarmed by the false smiles thinking that Vlad and his woman were planning to rendezvous somewhere after the party.

 "See you around, man!" Rupert said, and dragged Melina away.

 Slater was standing-by with his scrawny, short redhead. She looked like she's had severe and terrible acne problems since her birth. Slater was looking at Vlad, in an over-the-nose fashion, still convinced that he was better.

 Schnerer brought over for Vlad a glass of champagne when he was beginning to talk to Slater.

 "I'm happy to see that you're content with staying in second place, buddy! Though, there was a pleasant little tune that carried your story!" Slater said to Vlad. "I'd like to thank-you for liking my work, Jon!" said Vlad, then he moved a step closer and squeezed his rival's hand until he blushed with pain. "Oh! If I ever hear you using, even a three-note progression, that remotely resembles my music, my lawyers will be all over you like flies on shit!"

 Vlad was smiling throughout his remark to Slater and Slater's redhead began to laugh as she repeated what Vlad had said.

 Slater dragged her off, his eyes flamed in anger over her reaction. "Shut up, you bitch!" he said to his little companion. Vlad watched them leave and he turned to his new friend and colleague, Mordecai.

 "She probably comes from a very wealthy family!" Vlad said to Mordecai while pointing at Slater and his date.

 "You don't like him, I take it?" Mordecai asked him.

 Vlad just smiled and shook hands with others as they were leaving.

 Mordecai's secretary came back into the rehearsal hall and whispered something to him, and he told Vlad that he'd be right back. Meanwhile Cookie came to fill the gap.

 "You are genius, Vlad. You wait, and look. You will be today's Vivaldi or Pachelbel!" Cookie said to him.

 "Thanks, Cookie! -- No! Thank-you very much, Mr. Carlo Mediciano!" Vlad thanked him with true respect and he bowed his head, as well, to him.

 "You are a good man!" praised Cookie, then he said his goodnight to Vlad and left.

 Vlad asked Mordecai's secretary where he had gone.

 She answered him in a coldly calm voice.

 "Mr. Schnerer had an important call. He'll be right back." she said.

 Mordecai did indeed return, almost at the instant that Vlad finished being told that he would, by his secretary.

 "My folks aren't here, tonight!" he said to Mordecai.

 "They said they weren't going to come." Mordecai told Vlad. "I took the liberty of introducing them to the Pages, and they decided t go back home, with them, after the performance.

 "Oh!" said Vlad, then looked at his watch. It was closer to quarter to one, in the morning.

 "Say, Mordecai? Do you mind it very much if I would hang around here for another little while? I want to -- this sounds silly -- but I want to meditate about my performances, for a while. I'd truly like to remember every detail of it. You don't mind, do you?"

 Schnerer shook his head.

 "No, I don't mind. Just ask Roger, the guard, to let you out when you're ready to go."

 "Thanks!" said Vlad.

 Vlad left the rehearsal hall and walked through the entire building, most of which was dark and even eerie.

 There was the orchestra pit platform, raised half-way, with some of the larger instruments still unpacked.

 He stepped up onto the platform and looked around.

 There was only one stage-light still turned-on, burning directly over centre-stage.

 He took his bow-tie off and opened the three top buttons of his shirt. He left the tie on the music rack of the grand piano as he sat down at it.

 Vlad slowly opened the key-board cover and turned on the personal baby-light that was placed over it, for the reading of music.

 For the longest time, Vlad just stared down at the little black-and-whites before him. The real genius in music isn't solely the composer's, Vlad thought. The real genius was in the mind of the man who conceived this beautiful instrument. The genius within the rest, laid in the ability to utilize this instrument to its fullest potential.

 Vlad was beginning to wonder about himself and about the world in which he lived.

 He thought of his beloved Natalie, and how they were keeping themselves chaste, from one another and for one another. Yet, he was not truly chaste, having made passionate love with many minds through his almost inhuman-like command of this devise before him.

 He removed his jacket and draped it over the railing surrounding the pit. He looked out into the dark emptiness of the audience but only saw the few seats up front, and nothing more.

 Vlad wasn't aware of the pair of moist and glistening eyes that were watching him; scrutinizing his black and white clad form, in the same manner that he was staring down at the piano keys; and the watcher slowly moved closer towards him, without creating a single nuance of sound.

 Vlad set his fingers down on the keys and sustained a chord until he slowly followed through with a tune that always calmed him, from body to soul.

 Each note and harmony rang out from the pit and was lost into the clouds, and into the distant corners of the mezzanine.

 Vlad was playing the first movement from Beethoven's 'Moonlight Sonata'. He had always found that this tune sedated him, and had ever since he could remember playing it. He did not see anyone approaching the stage from the dark audience area, because his back was slightly turned to that side.

 All that he was aware of was his soul uniting with the music that was conveyed from his mind, though to the piano.

 He was playing the sonata with his eyes closed, knowing it, not only by heart, but by soul, too.

 Sitting at the piano, Vlad was no longer a distant human being and the piano was no longer just an instrument. Indeed, Vlad and the piano were one entity that was briefly surviving in this world.

 The tune was reaching its conclusion, however, and Vlad just let it echo off into eternity.

 "Oh, Natalie, my love! Where are you?" Vlad said aloud to himself.

 A gentle voice came from behind him just after the sound of delicate hands clapping.

 "I'm here, my darling!"

 Vlad wasn't startled or even very surprised.

 Both he and Natalie had thought about what their reunion would be like. They would throw themselves into each other's arms and wouldn't ease-up on their embrace for days. But, that's not the way that things happened.

 They both stared at one another. They hadn't realised just how much they really missed one another, until seeing one another, now.

 "I caught every one of your performances." she said to him. "It cost me a bundle, but they were all worth it."

 "Why didn't you let me know, or come to the reception parties afterwards."

 "It wouldn't have been good for either one of us." she said. "I saw that, the night I left you to your coaching! There would've been too many problems to my sharing all of your parties. These nights were only for you, and no one else."

 "They would have meant a lot more to me if you were with me!" Vlad admitted to her.

 "And it meant a lot more to me, this way! I've watched you bust your ass to make this a top-notch show. Maybe I've watched you too much, I don't know. I do know one thing, my love... I didn't want these past four nights to be proof to me, that you could make it in your world. This way you proved to yourself and also to others, that you go after what You want, without trying to impress someone in the meantime!"

 Vlad laughed through a sigh.

 "Do you really think that this would have been the case?" Vlad queried and she just nodded. "Well, I guess that you must love me more than I thought."

 "Yes, Vlad. I didn't leave you alone this week because of you -- I left for you!" she gave him a loving glare.

 "I went nuts without you, you know. I almost could not function!"

 "And yet, you've successfully put on a show. I can't say that I'm sorry for that. You've made it!" she finally said to him.

 "You will still marry me?" he asked her.

 "I could never have said, 'no'!"

 Vlad stretched-out his hand to her and she took it.

 He picked her up and helped her over the pit-railing and towards himself.

 They held tightly to one another, sharing each other's heartbeats, and sharing each other's breaths. She rested her head on his shoulder while he resumed playing for her, sending them both into a blissful trance.

 This was their painted dream, their music, their love. This was their overture.

 THE END

 LIFE IN A THRASHING MACHINE

 A Novel By: Walter D. Petrovic (c) October 1981 + May 2004

 513 - 25 Country Hill Dr. Kitchener, Ontario, Canada N2E 3L1

 (519) - 570 - 4774

 walter.petrovic@3web.net

 Approximate Number of Words: 54,245

 LIFE IN A THRASHING MACHINE

 W.D. PETROVIC

 If you have enjoyed reading my story please drop me an email. I am always willing to listen to constructive criticism and suggestions. 2 RTEXTR*ch

 

 THRASHING MACHINE

 

 from http://manybooks.net/