New Perspectives in Wellness & Benefit Communications

    

    

     

    

    New Perspectives in Wellness & Benefit Communications

    ***

    trends that will change everything, truths you should realize, and a communication plan of action you can follow today

    by

    Shawn M. Connors

    President & Founder, Hope Health

    William J. Mayer, MD, MPH

    Medical Editor, Hope Health

    www.HopeHealth.com

    

    eBook contents:

    Introduction

    The 7 mega-trends in health communication that will change everything

    People will Demand a Reason to Believe and Commit

    Social Media will Free Up Hidden Assets and Enable You to Communicate with Employees Instead of at Them

    Powerful, New Self-Care Tools will Further Empower People to be Wise Consumers of Health

    Your Community is an Untapped Gold Mine Waiting to be Discovered

    Consumer Retailers and Advertisers will Fund Workplace Wellness Programs via Sponsorships and Incentive Offers

    Demographics, Technology, and Healthcare System Changes Converge into an Explosion of Empowerment and Interest in Healthy Living

    New Wellness Topic: Reduce Debt and Save Money

    The 8 timeless truths of communication

    A Flawed Plan Well Communicated is Better than a Perfect Plan Poorly Communicated

    If You Think "Plain Language" is "Dumbing Down," You Flatter Yourself

    Creativity is a Precursor to Engagement

    Less is More. Think "Telegraph Message"

    People Understand Real Risk, not Relative Risk

    Headlines are Critical

    Print Communication Will Not Disappear

    Simple Beats Complex. Small Beats Big. Easy Beats Hard.

    You need a simple, actionable communication plan

    Discover What Employees Want -- and How They Want It

    Organize Your Thinking Into General Categories

    Think of Seasons of the Year and Seasons of Life

    Take Advantage of National Health Observances

    Use Our Little Secret to Help You Mix All Media Effectively

    Connect People Using New Media Tools

    Promote Your Program and Build a Sense of Urgency

    Build the Nuts and Bolts of Your Content Deployment

    Customize to Your Culture

    Outsource the Communication Work or Do It Yourself?

    Summary

    About the authors

    About Hope Health

    

    Acknowledgements

    Links to resources, tools and samples

    Join in the conversation

    Share your thoughts and opinions with your peers.... Here

    Read this eBook if you...

    Sense communication could be the driver to employee satisfaction with benefits, and the critical element in improving enrollment and engagement in wellness programs

    Wonder how to get employees to read important information

    Feel the way we relate to each other at work and in our community is changing at lightning speed, and you want to keep up and make sense of it

    See that great tools for wellness, benefit programs, and self-help go underused, and think there must be a better way to realize their full potential

    Suspect that paying big cash incentives for people to be well isn't the right motivation for long-term behavior change, and also feel that there is a meaningful, long-term convergence occurring between financial literacy and health literacy

    Want to understand and tap into the power of social media, video, and other new communication vehicles, and need a guide on how to use them in balance

    Want to know of a communication "plan of action" that is free, easy to understand, and simple to implement

    Believe effective employee communication is a blend of art and science, and the first part (art) can be ultra-powerful when promoting health and wellness

    Think there must be some simple solutions for connecting with people better

    This FREE eBook is produced and copyrighted by Hope Health. It is intended to help managers produce or improve upon wellness and benefit communication. We encourage you to share and forward this eBook as you wish. There are no registration requirements to obtain a copy. Please source excerpts (source: New Perspectives in Wellness -- HopeHealth.com). Sales of this content by third parties is prohibited. © Hope Health (dba), IHAC, Inc.

    

    Introduction

    At the turn of the 20th century, the world's best engineers and mechanics attacked the weighty challenge of human flight. They labored over ways to adapt what they knew -- heavy machinery -- to solve the problem.

    The Wright Brothers looked at the same issue with a completely different perspective. As bicycle mechanics, they used light materials and understood wind resistance. As machine shop owners, they understood the nuances of motors and parts.

    They knew steam engines wouldn't fly.

    In 1901, the brothers invented and built a small wind tunnel and discovered the basic principles of "lift," enabling them to build a functional wing. On December 17, 1903, in a field in North Carolina, their vision took off.

    The Wright Brothers weren't smarter or more brilliant than other great minds of the day. The right solution was a convergence of a major challenge, an underappreciated set of experiences, and the brothers' confidence in their ability to correctly and uniquely define the challenge.

    We love this story for its enduring lesson. Today, many well-intentioned people are tackling major challenges -- lack of participation in wellness programs and employee engagement, rising health care costs, unawareness of benefit plans, lack of productivity -- with the same methods and strategies they've tried for years. They feel grounded -- like a steam engine trying to fly.

    The bottom line: It's tough to get employees to tune in, let alone change their lifestyles, considering the way we've all been conditioned to think about health, wellness, and employee benefit programs.

    Employers tell us they feel trapped in minutiae. It's time for a new mentality. We're calling for a refreshingly simple and inspiring approach that draws upon the very things that make humans powerful -- a conversion of communication, creativity, and diverse experiences. This eBook can help you take a meaningful first step in that direction.

    It blends our experience, reporting, and storytelling to help you view current workplace programs in a new light. It illuminates what can happen when management prioritizes communication, plans ahead, gives up a little control of the message, and fully engages in the dialogue and energy already present within the workplace and surrounding community.

    you'll gain insight from three sections:

    trends:

    Working with hundreds of companies and communities has given us 30 years' worth of mental notes, anecdotes, data, and perspective. Mega-trends signal important new developments to understand and follow.

    truths:

    Some ideas are ageless, including concepts about effective employee communication. Let these basic truths serve as the foundation of your messaging.

    today:

    Every plan needs a framework -- a place to begin, and some practical, energizing steps to serve as a guide. A new, forward-thinking process can inject life into your employee communication programs.

    Let this eBook be your guide. Use it to apply a communications process that is flexible, reproducible, and relevant. Establish a framework where new ideas, programs, and events can be quickly and effectively communicated and shared. Begin to master the most honorable art -- the art of persuasion -- so your employee communication success can soar.

    The Wright Brothers embodied a simple point: If something seems too hard to accomplish, it's probably just being done wrong. There's no sense doing the same wrong things harder.

    Instead, if we can converge science and the arts, if we can tap into the active minds of employees and communities, if we can draw upon the power of multimedia tools, we will have our wind tunnel in place. We'll have a new perspective.

    The sky is the limit. Prepare for liftoff.

    The 7 mega-trends in health communication that will change everything

    During the past 30 years, Hope Health has worked with hundreds of companies and communities that deliver health and benefits messages to employees. Our passion and pleasure is to listen, learn, understand, motivate, and guide them, no matter their size or market.

    This experience has given us a trove of mental notes and anecdotes, a blend of science and sensibility that informs our insight. We can mix concrete data with pound-the-pavement knowledge. We have walked a mile in many shoes, with many people like you.

    Moving forward is a journey worth taking, now more than ever. Today, powerful health and benefits communication is the key difference maker for organizations aiming to improve their employees' engagement, health, and productivity.

    But success requires a new approach, a forward-thinking strategy that involves more energy, preparation, creativity, and fun.

    The destination is a practical communication system you can follow and use. The first step is to understand the importance of seven mega-trends:

    1. People will demand a reason to believe and commit.

    Most organizations find it difficult to get employees to participate in wellness programs, especially workers who need the programs the most. It's hard to get people to change their lifestyles and habits.

    For years, the same basic strategies and systems have been relied upon. Experts in the "Medical Model" have been in the driver's seat, and the results have been predictable:

    A risk-driven model that screens populations and then focuses on the highest-risk people

    An authoritative approach that tells us what to do or not do

    The guiding presence of a coach or other medical professional

    This health communication model produced numerous success stories, and medical-based facts will always be essential. The value and impact of science should never be underestimated. It's a long-standing truth. But we still hear the same complaints from managers and program administrators: low participation in programs, unawareness of available benefits and self-help tools, non-compliance in making suggested lifestyle changes, and lack of sustainability.

    Lifestyle choices contribute to about 50% of our disability and premature death. That was true 30 years ago, and it's still true today.

    We've succeeded at improving the health of targeted populations with intense resources and scrutiny, but we haven't brought wellness to populations in a way that affects health outcomes.

    We're clinging to the same ideas. A "comprehensive" wellness program improves outcomes, but doesn't guarantee its success. What you say and how you present your message is critical. What's going to motivate Jack in Accounting? What's going to make him take the stairs, start riding a bike, or enjoy the peace of working in a garden?

    Jack is going to start moving when he is moved -- when he's emotionally invested in improving his health.

    What is Jack's "reason to believe?"

    Target both sides of the brain.

    Effective health, benefits, and wellness communication targets both sides of the brain -- the left side that makes sense of pie charts, and the right side that has a passion for Picasso. It's time to use the power of artful persuasion in messages. You can't collect attention from employees unless you first connect with them.

    "No worthwhile communication can take place until you gain the audience's attention," says Nido R. Qubein, business consultant and motivational speaker. "Remember, people do things for their own reasons, not yours or mine. To effect action, you have to show them how their best interests are served by what you're saying."

    It's time for creative visual graphics. It's time for quick videos. Telegraphic messages. It's time to invite a chef to your next staff lunch. It's time to include yoga instructors and other artful perspectives in your communication. It's time to end the Era of Sterile!

    Cold stethoscopes and colonoscopies are not people's idea of a wellness experience.

    A total communications experience inspires, informs, shares, and celebrates the potential of the human spirit. It connects the employee with the employer and other team members with valuable, relevant, customized content that engages and motivates without preaching, criticizing or fear mongering. It creates an upbeat air of expectation. It's laced with humor and fun.

    We have information on the importance and power of wellness. These are your paintbrushes. Your canvas is white. You are an artist, and other artists surround you. How will your communication be sensational? What are the reasons to believe?

    2. Social media will free up hidden assets and enable you to communicate with employees instead of at them.

    Workplace communicators have untapped assets all around them -- knowledge, skills, experiences, and perspectives that aren't used because they simply aren't known.

    Who knew Melissa in Sales has been taking cooking classes, and can share five fun ways to grill with vegetables? Who knew Len in Marketing wants to start an after-work walking club and can share insight into preventing blisters?

    Social media became popular among people interested in entertainment, news, and politics. Look for this type of communication to become more prominent within workplace cultures.

    Until recently, many companies communicated at employees (emails from the HR department, meetings led by a manager, etc.). Today, a growing number of firms are using social media tools like Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and blogs to communicate with employees. The names and popularity of these tools will change, but the table has been set. Communication will never look like it did just a few years ago.

    The best communication has always been a two-way street -- and now it's an interconnected superhighway system. It has changed from the wisdom of the oracle to the wisdom of the crowd. You'll gain better, more frequent employee perspectives and feedback by fostering dialogue and discussion that spreads quickly and easily.

    Social media is pushing companies to realize they need to approach employees as information consumers.

    Quite literally, people are always on. We retrieve, send, text, tweet, upload, forward, and scan information quickly, from wherever we are, whenever we feel like it. The receiver, not the sender, is in control.

    Firms can more effectively reach employees -- especially younger ones -- by literally getting under their noses and fingers.

    The water cooler conversations of yesteryear have moved online, and so have brain-storming sessions, and your employees are texting, tweeting, blogging, and posting updates whether or not your servers allow it. Face-to-face and other traditional forms of communication are still vital, but social media technology can be the conduit of new knowledge and untapped resources, enabling richer interactions and more effective, personal communications.

    Are you using social media?

    Social media becomes more powerful as it becomes less obvious.

    If you are using text messaging, editing documents with Word® or Google Docs, adding your comments to a subject on Wikipedia, using apps on your mobile device, or down-loading digital music -- then you're part of the social fabric using electronic media.

    For a person just learning a social media application -- it's easy and fast.

    Social media is here -- you're probably already a player.

    Consider that a few years ago, many workplace communicators didn't know what a text message was. Today, some organizations are using quick-message methods to help employees maximize use of their benefit plans. The messages are helping benefits managers share concise plan updates, post open enrollment reminders, increase participation in 401(k) plans, and solicit employee feedback about new or changing options.

    You probably have a repository of content from which you can pull or expand into social media messages. It's time to make this happen, and to "follow" and "friend" those hidden assets that can make a real difference to your wellness and benefits communication.

    It's time to click with a connected crowd. What hidden resources will you uncover?

    3. Powerful, new self-care tools will further empower people to be wise consumers of health.

    We live in the Age of Information. As a society, we've never been more empowered to take control of our own health and well-being through powerful and easy-to-use self-care tools.

    We can quickly and easily access informative self-care handbooks (that also direct to specific online resources), Websites, videos, journals, and other media to guide us. The key word here is guide.

    Self-care technologies will increasingly be adapted to a person's learning style, and customized to an individual's needs. Powerful videos, animation, and messaging will save readers time by getting right at the pressing health issue.

    Also look for the adaptation of "recognition content" now used by organizations like Amazon® and Netflix®. Adapted for health communications, these technologies will come to anticipate the user's needs.

    Organizations can use their own communication tools to help point employees to these valuable, self-help resources. They can encourage employees to ask more questions, understand more options, and develop more opinions. Employees will be empowered "as needed," with information that makes them wiser consumers of health care.

    Sander Domaszewicz, principal and lead of health consumerism at Mercer, Washington D.C., encourages employees to ask the following questions before they seek care:

    Am I getting the right healthcare at the right time by the right provider?

    Is this care important or necessary?

    Are there better alternatives to this care?

    Should I call a nurse line instead of going to an urgent-care center?

    What over-the-counter medications might help?

    Will these medical services really address my problem?

    Will a primary care doctor be more practical for my needs than a specialist?

    There is no longer any reason your employees, patients, or members should not be armed with answers to the above questions via affordable and powerful self-care tools.

    4. Your community is an untapped gold mine waiting to be discovered.

    How would you feel if a great fresh food chef offered to take your employees to the local farmers' market and show them ways to buy and prepare food in quick, easy, nutritious ways? Sounds like fun.

    Or if the local sports store was heading up a program that offered a cool and rewarding way to get young girls interested in running to build their self-esteem and confidence at the same time? Outstanding.

    Think about the bicycle shop offering a family riding tour on the local rails-to-trails route. What a great day that would be.

    What if the most insightful thinkers and scholars in health and human behavior from the local colleges were ready and willing to share their wisdom and insights with you all the time? Invaluable.

    All the above are examples of actual events taking place in our home community of Kalamazoo, Michigan.

    There are diamonds in your backyard.

    Over the last 30 years, we've had an opportunity to visit hundreds of workplaces and communities. Often we've been amazed and inspired by the talent, passion, and expertise we learned existed in a single community.

    Trust us, you are living in a sea of solutions. An ocean of new and fun revelations. An army of talent and passion. It really is all around you.

    Colleges, hospitals, chefs, bicycle shops, park rangers, hobbyists, libraries, retirement communities (talk about experience!), artists, actors, writers, martial artists, and teachers -- you get the idea.

    Grassroots efforts by local merchants and small organizations will influence community health the most.

    Most of us are unaware of the resources that remain untapped within five miles from where we work and live. It's time to plug in.

    We sense something powerful happening. We think your employees and local citizens are way ahead of you. Small businesses, individuals, and small groups are using social media in powerful, local ways, and converting that interest into grassroots-oriented events.

    The tipping point may be the proliferation of short video. Seeing is believing. Video will be used more and more as a responsive medium. The point is your employees will now see what's going on around them rather than just hear about it. And the desire to participate will transform into action.

    Here are a few tips:

    Tap into community activities being talked about by grassroots groups.

    Collaborate with other workplaces and institutions and bring their expertise and experience to the table.

    Plan events and programs in conjunction with other organizations to share resources, reduce costs, and leverage your messages inside and out.

    Watch new communication technologies carefully (like video streaming). They enable us to connect and interact more. Social interaction is a fundamental human need.

    5. Consumer retailers and advertisers will fund workplace wellness programs via sponsorships and incentive offers.

    The era of traditional mass advertising -- producing one message for big, diverse audiences --is coming to an end. Advertising is becoming highly targeted with built-in analytic capabilities. Custom media, search, viral, and value added are the terms you hear today. Look for advertisers to knock on your door soon.

    Today's buyers are more in control over the content they choose to read, and traditional media sources are losing reach. "Blanket" marketing has left advertisers cold, and they now seek new ways to reach consumers.

    Advertising Means Response and Communication

    A key to their approach is targeting. They crave the opportunity to penetrate different customer segments and understand their "buyer personas." Instead of shouting at millions of strangers, they're starting conversations (and programs and events) for fewer, more interested consumers. Once the firms understand what's important to a particular persona, they stand a much better chance of communicating and persuading them to take action and buy products.

    The new marketing model is to deliver timely information to groups that actively look for something: tips, customized offers, solutions to problems, and so on.

    Meanwhile, HR leaders face a common problem: They want to generate buzz and credibility for their wellness programs. Sure, they have well-crafted messages about the dangers of eating too much saturated fat. But those messages -- heck, the wellness programs themselves -- have no sizzle.

    On one front, retailers and other advertisers with health-related products and services have untapped, valuable targets: wellness program participants and other community members with an expressed interested in health. On another front, HR departments need help funding their wellness programs, enticing new participants, and organizing events and new offerings. The two fronts are colliding. It's a perfect storm.

    HR pros can get financial support and a credibility boost from retailers, who in turn can market their products and services using existing workplace communication tools such as newsletters, posters, emails, and fliers.

    The local bike shop owner could write a newsletter article and include a 25% off coupon. A local yoga instructor can print posters showing five moves to try, and the company could hang the posters around the office, along with information about new yoga classes. A local farmer's market can "keep the healthy healthy" by offering recipes and ideas on including vegetables as part of meals or snacks.

    Big companies will get in the game, too, in a major way. Get ready for posters, offers and motivational messages with the Nike® "swoosh," coming to a conference-room wall and inbox near you. Get ready for wellness-program cooking classes led by chefs from Whole Foods® (or our beloved Meijer®). Welcome to ABC Company's Wellness Program Kickoff Spectacular, Sponsored by Weight Watchers®!

    Doubt it will happen? Keep this in mind: Several years ago, athletic logos were taboo in high school and college athletics programs. Check out the scene today -- logos on lockers and socks, exclusive deals for schools, major ROI for the advertisers. Those firms realized the value of a niche, helped to fund its targets, and both sides capitalized.

    The concept of consumer retailers funding workplace wellness programs will introduce a number of ethical issues and conflicts of interest. We believe these issues can be mitigated by following these principles:

    a. Be true to your organization's culture and brand

    b. Clearly distinguish advertising from other content

    c. Strive for messages that are relevant to your content

    d. Ensure all messages are in the best interest of employees

    We report this trend without opinion on the issues it will raise, but rather to make you aware that these consumer retailers may be knocking on your door soon.

    This movement in the health and wellness industry will be huge, and it could change the way wellness programs are funded and organized. Retailers are getting ready. Are you?

    6. Demographics, technology, and healthcare system changes converge into an explosion of empowerment and interest in healthy living.

    What happens when an aging public becomes more concerned about its health and employee benefits, more comfortable making its own health decisions, and more empowered to access information and opinions in new ways?

    Hold on tight. We're about to find out.

    "For the past century, a premise of health policy has been that patients are ill-equipped to judge the merits of tests, treatments, and providers," says M. Gregg Bloche, M.D., J.D., an adjunct professor at Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. "Conventional wisdom says that physicians should fill this gap by acting as patients' agents."

    But today, more people are motivated to take charge of their own care. To enable this trend, businesses and public officials are developing new ways to spread information about treatment efficacy, provider quality, and price .

    That means Baby Boomers, many of whom are beginning to think about their mortality, have more power literally at their fingertips -- social media platforms, Internet chat rooms, text messages, and other tools to help them inform, question, comment, and challenge.

    People are already using advanced medical technology in new, personal ways. Let's consider a diabetic man in his late 50s. We'll call him Joe. A few years ago, there was no practical way for Joe to take his own blood-sugar level. Today, he can use his own equipment to track that level. Then he can go to his computer and track the balance of his Health Savings Account (HSA).

    While Joe is online, he can explore online health tools that direct him toward a healthier lifestyle. For instance, Google Health's personalized tools menu includes a diabetes health assessment, a heart attack risk calculator, and a "Health Butler" that emails reminders based on a person's health profile.

    Joe can also manage and update his Web-based individualized personal health record (PHR), which includes his medications, family history, appointment calendar, and much more. Health organizations have worked over the past two decades to integrate medical records, laboratory and pharmacy claims, and insurance claims into one system. PHRs build upon that system in a personalized way to include information that engages people like Joe about their health management.

    "Electronic medical records empower people to take responsibility for their healthcare and to ask the right questions of their physicians so they can make the most of appointments," says Dr. David Gugliotti, a hospital physician at Cleveland Clinic, one of many hospital systems embracing such systems. At the Cleveland Clinic, multifaceted software stores records, prompts preventive care, gives patients access to certain record information, and will ultimately replace the pad-and-pen format of record keeping.

    Quick Stat: A recent American Hospital Association survey found that 68% of hospitals are on the road to full electronic medical record adoption.

    Jeanette Thornton, director of health informatics at the America's Health Insurance Plans trade group, says more consumers like Joe will also be able to access the financial aspects of their medical care soon, thanks to tools such as Intuit Inc.'s Quicken® Health, which enables consumers to organize and view medical expenses, insurance payments, and service history from providers.

    Power now lies in patients' hands. That's the heart of the matter. And it's rocket fuel for the future of health and benefits communications.

    7. New Wellness Topic: Reduce Debt and Save Money

    People must be both health literate and financially literate if they're to be informed health care consumers. Both types of literacy require an understanding of numbers (e.g., monitoring blood sugar and preparing a budget).

    Look for much more integration of these two topics under the banner of wellness programs. Poor health negatively affects employees' personal finances (e.g., low credit scores resulting from unpaid medical bills). Health is also negatively impacted by personal finances (e.g., overdue bills causing physical stress symptoms, high co-payments decreasing access and adherence to treatments).

    When people live longer due to improved health, will they risk outliving their assets, or will they enjoy more time to compound their wealth?

    Is it possible that there is a moral argument for making sure we empower people to build a financial nest egg as we work to improve the quality and length of their lives? Most of our clients say health and financial literacy need to be integrated much more.

    Employer Behavior Change Initiatives

    Money seems to have stuck its toe into the wellness world via incentives. So far, we see evidence of incentives being effective in boosting enrollment and early participation in wellness programs -- for example, paying someone to complete a Health Risk Appraisal, or participate in some component of a program. Cash incentives and reductions in premium contributions to health plans seem to be popular.

    In the next few years we'll see financial incentives used to reward people who achieve positive, long-term health outcomes. It's likely those incentives will be more of the stick variety than the carrot. Why? Behavioral financial research finds people experience more pain from investment losses than happiness from equivalent-sized gains. And employees seem to be more motivated to improve their health by the risk of losing their own money than by earning rewards.

    Thus we think incentives will tend to utilize "refundable deposit" accounts and forfeit money if personal wellness targets are missed. Look for employers and health plans to devise programs that make everyone have a little "skin in the game."

    Out-of-Pocket Cash Expenses

    A communication tactic that seems to be catching on is to make people aware of the cost of certain lifestyle habits -- for example, the cost of a pack of cigarettes multiplied by a year, and then compounded to future value. Or cutting a small expense each day related to snacking. Or getting people to grow their own vegetable garden thus improving their health and consuming the fruits of their labor.

    Wellness programs will increasingly include information on how to reduce debt, save money for retirement, follow basic investment concepts, save for college educations, and teach their kids about money. The wellness programs themselves will include financial incentives and may soon become the place employees expect to learn more about money.

    For a chart outlining the striking similarities between health and personal finances, see Resource Section Item #1 .

    For an example of how employers inform employees about HSAs using a brochure that is listed with other wellness topics, see Resource Section Item #2.

    The 8 timeless truths of communication

    The previous section featured new thinking -- fresh trends to know and follow. This section takes a different spin. It features ageless points -- timeless truths about communication that are equally important to abide by.

    Our experience has taught us a valuable lesson about communication in general: It's wildly under-emphasized. Rather than receive spotlight treatment, communication is an afterthought, existing in the shadows. When it's time to send an email or produce newsletter copy, it gets to come into the light. Then it goes back into hiding.

    Any wellness or benefit program concept should start with two questions:

    How shall this be communicated?

    How shall that communication be received?

    Sometimes the most basic things are the most valuable: No information can be absorbed, learned, used, or shared without the effort of two sides -- a sender and a receiver. Companies spend time thinking about the former (their own wellness or benefits strategies, what kinds of messages to send), and also some time thinking about the latter (what employees want and need to hear).

    But they spend precious little time considering how to maximize the connection between the company and its audience. People talk, email, chat, post, and text all the time, so we assume health and benefits communication should come naturally. It doesn't.

    So before you tackle the practical steps beginning on page 27, know these 8 timeless truths of communication:

    1. A flawed plan well communicated is better than a perfect plan poorly communicated.

    Over the past 20 years, how many hours have companies spent devising and revising their health, wellness and benefits plans? It's a huge number.

    A result of that time and money is many organizations now build programs that include well-crafted options and best-practice strategies. The plans look excellent on paper.

    So why are engagement and enrollment top concerns of wellness program directors?

    Why are so many people sedentary? Why don't we walk a little more? Why don't we do the simple things -- like eat smaller portions?

    Why did Dr. Dana E. King, a professor in the department of family medicine at the Medical University of South Carolina, recently analyze Americans' overall health in the past two decades and issue a C-minus grade?

    That's an expensive C-minus.

    We won't begin to improve until we start thinking about communication at thesame time we devise program details and options.

    Having a mighty, feature-rich, seemingly amazing wellness plan or benefits package is useless if employees aren't aware of the value. A great plan poorly communicated is like a fantastic sound system that lacks an "on" button.

    Devising progressive, creative ways to deliver health-related programs and services is admirable, but those methods are the icing. The cake -- the foundation for behavior change and real progress -- is creative, persuasive communication. It's actually more effective for a company to build a flawed plan and then communicate it really well. At least employees will tune in.

    "Strong communication may be the single most important investment an employer can make in a benefits program," says Tom Gilligan, Colonial Life's senior vice president of marketing and branding. "Communication outweighs even the richness of the benefits package when it comes to how much employees value their benefits program."

    Don't let workplace messages about healthcare, wellness, and benefits fall on deaf ears.

    Communication shouldn't be an afterthought. It should be a first thought.

    2. If you think "plain language" is "dumbing down," you flatter yourself.

    There's a Grand Canyon-sized gap between what organizations want to say and how they choose to say it. It's common to neglect the importance of "voice" -- the tone of your communication, as determined by your audience.

    Businesses that want to sound "official" usually end up sounding egotistical or confusing. Their messages are filled with corporate-speak, jargon, and gobbledygook. The intent of their messages is lost in the delivery.

    Clarity is the main ingredient of effective communication. If your messages aren't obvious, they can't be understood.

    In fact, they might not even be read or heard. This is especially true when a topic is viewed by employees as important but intricate (choosing a healthcare plan, understanding a health savings account, improving overall wellness, etc.).

    As a workplace communicator, you have the task of reaching a large variety of workers, including people who struggle to read, and those who can read but either don't take the time or simply tune out health information.

    It's an important challenge. In fact, the National Patient Safety Foundation says the biggest barriers to being healthy are not age, income, education level, race, or ethnicity: Studies indicate that the strongest predictor of a person's health status is his or her ability to understand and use health information. That's why Hope Health writes and designs many of it's client's communications in "Quick-Read" format.

    "We can't keep focusing on our information instead of our readers," says Audrey Riffenburgh, founder and president of consultancy Plain Language Works, LLC.

    Clear communication is about focusing on what your readers need to know and then delivering that by making sure messages are relevant and understandable.

    Putting that communication in "plain language" doesn't mean you're "dumbing down" messages. It simply means you understand the importance of having employees receive them.

    For a sample of a Plain Language document, see Resource Section Item #3.

    3. Creativity is a precursor to engagement.

    People are motivated in different ways -- some are won over with logic and reason, some are influenced by forces of emotion, and some need a healthy mix of both.

    One problem with conventional health communication is that it appeals to the head but not the heart. It targets the cranium when employees crave something else. It embodies science -- statistics, studies, etc. -- but lacks sentiment.

    Plenty of organizations have stats on the benefits of breathing exercises. Few organizations try to take their employees' breath away.

    Yet somewhere in your community, local chefs would love the opportunity to discuss healthy cooking with your employees. Amateur musicians and artists would apply their creativity to your health promotion goals. Organic farmers, pet lovers, niche writers, home gardeners, and videographers would appreciate an invitation, and they're right in your community.

    Invite these folks in, and they could inspire -- not just inform -- your audience.

    Consider for a moment a wellness-program participant with back problems. Perhaps he receives periodic phone calls from a corporate wellness coach. This setup can be valuable, but the underlying message could be perceived to be, "I'm calling because we both know there is something wrong with you."

    Now consider that same wellness-program participant as he watches a one-minute video of a skilled acrobat flipping, twirling and twisting in midair. Imagine him watching the acrobat then demonstrate five simple exercises that strengthen back muscles.

    Now imagine the wellness coach having that video available to share. That creative element will present a new perspective on the challenge. And creativity is a precursor to engagement.

    Dream up some compelling new ways to communicate, and watch what happens: More employees will "wake up."

    4. Less is more. Think "telegraph message."

    The average attention span of Americans today is roughly the time it has taken you to readthis sentence. "You only have a minute to gain their attention" is an incorrect maxim. You have about 2.7 seconds.

    And then you have to keep their interest so they can act upon your communication? That's not easy, to say the least. You're trying to reach employees at the same time they're updating some files while instant messaging with co-workers while straightening up their desks while listening to a conference call.

    Do they have a minute? Actually, no.

    You're facing other communication hurdles, too. You have to get through to employees, but here's what many of them are thinking:

    What is this?

    Should I read it?

    I don't have time.

    What's in it for me?

    What I really want to do is delete this and move on.

    Whoa -- this is pretty cool!

    How can you get employees to view -- let alone read -- your workplace communication?

    "If a worker views something for a few seconds, he or she should be able to describe at least the gist of what you're saying," says Alison Davis, CEO of employee communications firm Davis & Company, and coauthor of the book Your Attention, Please: How to Appeal to Today's Distracted, Disengaged and Busy Audiences. "If that can't be done, your communication program is going to suffer a quick death."

    Many employees turn a deaf ear to anything involving topics they don't understand fully. So when they see an email about important changes to the company's healthcare plan, for example, their tendency is to delay reading it until they absolutely must. (Example of a teaser that would get attention: "Are your Rx prices changing next month?")

    More companies and communities are realizing the antidote is a one-two combination -- brevity and clarity.

    Think teasers. Think billboard. Make your messages easy and scannable. Cut your articles to 100 words. Get your videos down to one minute, max. Stick to one concept.

    For years, wellness and benefits communication had been riddled with corporate-speak and jargon instead of clear, concise language aimed at a busy, short-attention-span workforce. Before you start to craft your communications, remind yourself of these three realities about your audience's openness to your message:

    They don't want it.

    They don't have time for it.

    They didn't ask for it.

    The most common problems...

    Getting technical and clinical. Some organizations try to show off their intelligence by distributing long articles or emails filled with jargon and legalese. Keep your messages simple and understandable.

    Covering too much. Say it quick, and make it stick. Listen to seasoned radio sources (politicians, book authors, activists, for example) and notice how they are great at getting their point across in sound bites. Decide on your main concept and focus on getting that message across. Then stop.

    Failing to highlight important copy. Cut the gist of your message down to an "elevator speech" you can describe in a sentence or two. Make those words the first ones readers see. Don't "bury" the point.

    Creating brick walls of copy. Don't make readers scroll down several screens to read an email, and don't pass out an important internal brochure that lacks illustrations, charts, or tables. Include subheads, sidebars, pull quotes, boxes, and the like whenever possible, especially when presenting an idea that can be better understood visually on first glance.

    Lecturing. Provide take-away value. Think "so what?"

    "It's such an unkind reality -- yet such a critical realization -- to understand that most employees need to be told why they should care," says Sharon Long Baerny, principal of the Seattle-based communications agency We Know Words. "Whatever you're communicating, it's much more important to you than it is to your recipients. So to make your messages more effective, you must begin to think more like them."

    Assumptions to avoid...

    Assuming you can get employees to act on your messages without telling them why and without asking them to act

    Assuming employees will read, instead of simply scanning, your content

    Assuming it's not worthwhile to encourage employees to make seemingly minor healthcare changes and choices, rather than grand plans

    Assuming professional-sounding language is better than simple "plain speak" in your workplace communication

    Assuming all employees absorb and retain communication in the same manner and prefer the same medium

    Brevity and clarity are essential components of effective communication. If your messages aren't obvious and plain, they can't be understood.

    Short and scannable. An economy of words. Get visual. Go!

    5. People understand real risk, not relative risk.

    Flip a coin. Call it. Heads or tails? You've got a 50% chance of being wrong (or right). And that's about the extent of what most of us understand about risk (chance).

    People don't understand risk factors.

    In fact, there are so many problems with "risk factors" as a basis for wellness programs, it's hard to know where to begin. One of the biggest problems is that we communicate in terms of relative risk (% of what?) rather than real risk (4 out of 1,000 people).

    Here is an excerpt of an unpublished editorial sent in by the co-author of this eBook, Shawn M. Connors, to USA Today about an advertisement:

     reduces risk of heart attack by 36%.

    This was the headline in a full page ad that recently ran in USA Today. In smaller print below we learn that 3% of patients in a study taking a placebo (sugar pill) had a heart attack compared with 2% of patients taking . A better way of saying this: Out of 100 people, 97 who do not take  will not have a heart attack. And out of 100 people, 98 people who take  will not have a heart attack.  does understand... because when you turn the page and read about the risk factors of taking , it states, "fewer than 3 people out of 100 stopped taking  because of side effects."

    Let's put some of that clear communicating in the headline."

    Even a lot of docs don't think past relative risks statements. If someone tells you that you have a 40% less (or more) risk of something, ask them, "Compared to what?"

    If they can't answer, then there is no basis for a decision on a change in behavior or medication.

    Although we've used an example of a prescription drug, any discussion of risk presents the same communication challenge. It's best to avoid the subject unless it's communicated in real terms (X out of 100 or X out of 1,000).

    We do believe real risk factors can play a meaningful role in the dialogue we have with people. But risk factors should not be the foundation of a wellness program. Clearly, a population that lowers its risk factors saves money for the group. We just maintain the only effective, sustainable way to actually lower risk factors is to talk about them much less often.

    Let's focus on the things in people's lives that create happiness, fulfillment, and connection to other people to create change -- for example, family, renewal, personal growth and hope, instead of an abstract concept of relative risk factors. After all, we're only allowed a short time to get our messages across. Do we really want to burn up that time on a highly complex and problematic health concept?

    Talking about things differently will enable communication that drives people to action, leading to behavior change and culture change (lasting change!).

    Source: Helping Patients Understand Risks, 7 Simple Strategies for Successful Communication, John Paling, PhD

    6. Headlines are critical.

    Employees are literally surrounded by communication. On their desks, memos and faxes await response. On their computers, unread email messages mount, and instant messages ding. Corkboards have sticky notes, cell phones have missed calls, and ... what? You have an important health or benefits message to send?

    Of course you do, and you want employees to read and react -- to pay close attention, under-stand the message immediately, and respond accordingly. But realistically, how can you get their eyes to see (and their neurons to fire) when their heads are spinning?

    It's hard to get your communication strategy in line when your messages are in line -- single file, waiting their turn, behind a bombardment of others.

    Truth is, people don't read. They scan. We are a populace versed in instant gratification: Give us the good stuff, and do it now!

    A single-mode experience -- listen to the radio, or watch TV, or bowl -- has been replaced with diversions in the form of a deluge. We process information and experiences multi-modally. We can blog, text, chat, watch a video, and bowl all at the same time.

    So, in a world where attentions wander, many important workplace messages are "lost" on employees because they simply can't be found. They're missing in brick walls of text.

    It's more important to emphasize elements such as headlines, subheads, image captions, and call-outs, and to include bullets, lists, charts, and graphs.

    These "scannable" elements should represent at least half of the effort put into a communication piece. They'll actually be read; the rest will be seen based on individual interest. So before sending a message, apply a quick "scan test" -- can the average employee scan it in seconds and understand the topic and main point?

    For quick tips on writing articles, memos, or posts that will get read, see Resource Section Item #4.

    Relish the role of making your health and benefits communication simple, not just essential.

    7. Print communication will not disappear.

    Imagine for a moment that we occupy a completely digital world, one in which no one has heard of printing. And then someone makes a discovery: There's a way to grow a substance that can be converted into a portable communications tool. This tool can be used, shared and -- get this! -- recycled later into a bench.

    Renewable? Recyclable? Portable? Is this magic?

    It's paper.

    But in today's real world, print is degraded for being environmentally hazardous, and it's downgraded for being un-cool. But it has been the world's No. 1 communications medium for so long, we tend to overlook its power.

    The print medium isn't dead, it's just changing. To maximize its effectiveness, you need to make print more timely and customized.

    Whenever new technologies come to the forefront, some people assume the "old" technology will immediately be displaced. That's not generally the case. Radio didn't go away when families started watching TV, just as movie DVDs didn't go away after Internet streaming. Likewise, print isn't going away during this age of new media.

    People trust print. It's credible. They feel comfortable using it. They can't fast-forward past it. Print doesn't delete. You don't need to charge it.

    Print is beautiful. It can draw the eye to content and photos with effects and papers that make readers want to touch and feel your message.

    Print enhances the impact of other media. Direct mail, poster campaigns and brochures can lead people to websites, videos, and social media sites -- and vice versa.

    Even new digital technologies such as Quick Response codes ("QR codes") -- two-dimensional bar codes appearing on printed pages or packaging that people scan with mobile phones so they can quickly access corresponding websites, videos, coupon offers and more -- co-exist with print.

    There is a possibility that our enthusiasm for a "paperless society" has gone to an extreme. There is too much congestion online now. We believe advertising, publishing, and entertainment industries will begin testing new tactics in print as part of a process of breaking through. In a recent survey of HR directors, wellness professionals and benefit managers we recently conducted, 76% of respondents will continue to use print somewhat or consistently as part of workplace communications.

    To remain effective, any communication method must deliver messages that people want in a way that's relevant and useful to them. Printed content will continue to play a strategically important role in communication. Print gives you a less competitive and crowded medium with all the benefits of a physical impact. Make print part of your media mix.

    8. Simple beats complex. Small beats big. Easy beats hard.

    Some of the most effective health, wellness, and benefits communication plans were created by organizations that were brave enough to think small.

    Rome wasn't created in a day. Improved health and a better understanding of benefit options won't happen overnight either.

    Well-crafted messages can spur employees to action, but change is more realistic when it's less idealistic -- when it encourages minor changes rather than massive overhauls.

    Consider a common health communication challenge: On one end of the fitness spectrum, you're speaking to the gold standards of good health -- passionate folks who exercise five times a week and like salads. On the other end of the spectrum, you're trying to reach folks who don't even consider the need to exercise.

    Many health communication plans focus on getting people in the latter group to join the zealots. That's ambitious and unrealistic. Smart communication aims to move unhealthy people an inch forward on the spectrum, not push them to lose mega-inches from their waistlines.

    "People don't have to spend hours in the gym," says Gordon Blackburn, PhD, program director of Cardiac Rehabilitation in the Preventive Cardiology Department of the Cleveland Clinic. "Walking the dog, taking the stairs instead of the elevator, and even vacuuming briskly burns calories and can improve your cardiovascular health."

    While some changes -- quitting smoking, for example -- are foundations of healthful living, simple lifestyle improvements such as moderate walking and switching to fat-free milk can lower weight, blood pressure, and cholesterol, Blackburn points out.

    Effective employee communication eases instead of urges.

    So, go ahead: Start thinking smaller. Toss in some humor and have fun. Recognize and reward small accomplishments regularly. Baby steps are fine. One thing at a time.

    You need a simple, actionable communication plan

    Almost everywhere we go, communication is an afterthought, viewed by organizations as a necessary byproduct of their wellness and benefits plans. Companies design or adopt a program, and then consider ways to deliver messages to elicit employee participation. Communication doesn't lead the charge; it goes along for the ride.

    This seems like the path of least resistance to some workplace communicators. They assume health and benefit topics are complex compared to communication, which feels intuitive. (We communicate constantly, after all.) What to say -- isn't that more difficult to figure out than how (and when) to say it?

    Not necessarily. Identifying goals and objectives, knowing your audience, and realizing the medium is not the message are all important, but an effective communication strategy is critical to a successful workplace program, too. The communication strategy shouldn't be served late, whipped together so it appears in a hodgepodge of messages, voices, and looks. It shouldn't be stifled by red tape or turf wars.

    There is a better way.

    That way is a framework -- a place to begin, and a few practical steps to guide you along a fresh trail. The result of simple planning can be a structure that's effective and (thank goodness) energizing, a total communications experience that inspires, informs, shares, and celebrates the potential of healthy living and the human spirit.

    It's time to inject life into wellness and benefits plans. Here's a taste of how.

    1. Discover what employees want -- and how they want it.

    Well-intentioned professionals nationwide make key decisions based on best guesses and first reactions. But effective workplace communication is too central to leave up to your gut.

    Reaching employees with effective, timely, relevant messages is your mission. Information can serve as your map: What do they want to know? What do they really want to accomplish? How would they prefer to receive (or not receive) the messages you're sending?

    "Asking questions about who you're talking to, writing for, or presenting to is the first place to start, and it's generally where most communications strategies fail," says Bill Dickmeyer of Madison Human Resources Consulting LLC in Madison, WI.

    Find out what your employees are thinking and what captures their attention with this quick survey -- see Resource Section Item #5.

    While each member of your audience is different, the survey will help you collect information on overall characteristics such as interest (often missed in this stage), HRA data, gender, culture, and education.

    This information can fuel your communication plan, help you establish a philosophy and mission for your program, and enable you to set expectations and create demand.

    As you build your strategy, keep in mind these key elements of effective wellness and benefits communication:

    A holistic approach that encourages small changes that lead to bigger changes

    A focus on community support, events, and programs

    A blend of digital and print communications, which are most powerful when they work in concert

    A continual way for employees to provide input and feedback to communicate with one another

    A brand, logo, slogan, and visual identity to give wellness programs personality

    An injection of humor and entertainment to make it fun

    2. Organize your thinking into general categories.

    Many health, wellness, and benefits experts feel overwhelmed by the sheer volume of what they could communicate. Figuring out what to say, write, email, post, embed, film, upload, text, and tweet can make your head spin.

    Steal a page from newsstand publications, and categorize your thinking into sections that match your mission and your employees' needs.

    Think about USA Today. World events are ever-changing, and the supply of human interest stories is endless, yet each issue is segmented and presented in four easy-to-find, color-coded sections: main news (blue), Life (purple), Sports (red), and Money (green).

    Likewise, your favorite monthly magazine includes regular "departments" in each issue that complement its cover story and main features. This material changes from month to month (different people are interviewed, different ideas are presented), yet the content feels right because it's categorized under topical headings.

    This structure enables readers to form expectations -- people "know where to turn" for information that matters to them.

    It gives them a sense of comfort and trust -- traits you want employees to feel about your communication.

    So, assume you're the editor-in-chief of your company's editorial products: What departments would you create? What special issues might you plan? What would your cover stories be about?

    An easy, effective way to segment your content is by topic. Here's an example, using four categories -- Movement, Food, Money and Trends:

    Movement

    5 Main Benefits of Walking

    Why You Should Take the Stairs

    Getting Fit While Sitting at Your Desk

    Food

    5 Tasty & Healthy Recipes

    What You Should Know About Salt

    The Power of Okra

    Money

    5 Things to Know About Your Retirement Savings

    Is an HSA Right for You?

    Fun Activities That Don't Pinch the Wallet

    Trends

    Childhood Obesity & What It Means for You

    Actually, You Do Need Carbs

    Yoga Isn't Just for Women

    Another way to segment your content is by theme. Here's another example, using the same 12 topics listed above, just categorized differently:

    Inspiration

    You Can Cook These 5 Healthy Recipes!

    Kick-Start Your Retirement Savings!

    Cut Back on Salt!

    Humor

    Okra, Arugula, Ice Cream: Why You Should Try 2 of These 3

    That All-Carb Diet is aGreat Idea (If You Want to Gain Some Weight)

    Maybe You Should Walk to Work? (Just Don't Be Late, OK?)

    Common Sense

    The Plain Truth About Childhood Obesity

    Chart: Stairs vs. Elevator

    How to Burn 200 Calories While Sitting at Your Desk

    Family Values

    Is an HSA Right for Your Family?

    Guys, Is It Time to Join Your Significant Other in Yoga?

    Pile the Kids in the Car, and Check Out These Free Activities

    Let categories guide your messaging. They will help you determine what to communicate, which will come in handy as you develop a plan for when and how to send your content.

    3. Think of seasons of the year and seasons of life.

    Most organizations don't plan ahead in their employee communication efforts. They produce messages haphazardly, often at the last minute. They might suddenly realize, "We haven't included anything about healthy nutrition in a while. Can we pull something together before our wellness event next week?"

    They grasp at straws.

    Instead, they should grab a calendar.

    You need a systematic way to quickly and effectively communicate and share your new ideas, programs and events. It's time to start thinking about timing.

    Seasons change. There is an ebb and flow of activities and priorities as we move from spring to summer to fall to winter. This comes as no surprise to retailers. They develop coupon programs, special rates, and more based upon seasonality. They're excellent at taking advantage of predictable behavioral patterns, leading consumers to tune in to what's happening "now."

    Think of a typical family with kids in school as they transition from summer to fall. Wellness topics could be produced to match what is on their minds -- healthy school lunches, sports participation, freed up time at home, clothing, outdoor activities, etc.

    That's a smart way to plan health communications.

    In fact, each content category you created in the previous chapter could have specific material prepared based upon seasons of the year. Here's an example:

    Food

    Spring: Best ways to design a vegetable garden

    Summer: Finding nearby farms for strawberry picking

    Fall: Giving thanks to local chefs and dieticians

    Winter: Paying attention to portion sizes during the holidays

    Money

    Spring: Earmarking tax-return money for your IRA

    Summer: Easy ways to save on school supplies

    Fall: Getting ready for open enrollment season

    Winter: Maximizing the use of your flexible spending account

    Then there are also seasons of life within your target audience. Make sure there is relevant information for the young and old, fit and unfit, caregivers, new parents, and kids. Mix your topics among a variety of demographic groups because all that we love are among these groups. We like to think of people reading our stuff and saying, "Hey, Martha, did you see this?"

    You can plan your messaging one year out, working season by season. That way, you'll keep your wellness programs fresh, repeat information you've identified as important, and make consistent messaging part of your culture. You'll also be able to anticipate benefit renewals, changes in benefit plans, and other important annual benchmarks.

    This annualized planning will help you avoid "flavor of the month" programming that can be hit-and-miss for your population. Thinking ahead allows you to consider interesting, fresh ways to communicate, and then to produce those messages strategically.

    Thinking ahead -- simple ideas can do wonders.

    4. Take advantage of National Health Observances.

    Throughout May, newspaper articles, TV news stories, community websites, retail advertisements, popular blogs, recreation center bulletin boards, and other outlets included content about the value of physical fitness.

    It was a great time for a piggyback.

    It was National Fitness and Sports Month, one of many National Health Observances (NHOs) recognized by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. And it was an ideal opportunity for companies to leverage an NHO to stimulate awareness of health and wellness programs. That's because all the media giants peg their editorial schedules and marketing messages to the health observances.

    Employees are more likely to listen and respond to repeated, positive messages, so ally your efforts with other communication employees are receiving.

    The National Health Information Center lists all NHOs, along with sponsoring organizations and information about supporting materials available online. These health observances are tied to nearly every aspect of wellness and health. See Resource Section Item #6 for a list of key NHOs you can plan around.

    By using this resource, you can plan specific messages in advance, building monthly and weekly components into the forward-thinking, seasonal approach to health communication you began in the last chapter.

    Let's use National Fitness and Sports Month as an example. A few months before May, you could have planned multiple components of your upcoming communication about physical fitness, such as ...

    A fun, downloadable PDF about the health benefits of regular exercise

    A poster featuring quotes from employees who participate in your wellness program

    A map pointing to all the places in your community where fitness programs are available

    An email reminder about your organization's discounted gym membership

    A series of text messages, social media updates, or emails with quick exercise ideas and tips (perhaps written for free by a local fitness instructor)

    An intranet link where employees can post inspirational messages, video clips, links to news stories, etc., about physical fitness

    National observances present opportunities to work with other community agencies and organizations to coordinate joint events, programs, and celebrations.

    Scan the NHO list, start brainstorming ideas in advance, and solicit some fresh perspective (and energy) of others in your community.

    5. Use our little secret to help you mix all media effectively.

    Many organizations have a single favorite way to deliver health, wellness and benefits communication to employees. Maybe it's a regularly scheduled email. Maybe it's a newsletter or staff meeting.

    After a while, this go-to method feels routine and trustworthy -- the way a sports coach feels about a reliable veteran.

    No coach can win with just one player. Every veteran needs a team that includes energizing new talent, budding superstars, and savvy role players, all working together for a common purpose.

    Your roster of communication options has never been more powerful or exciting. Get them all ready to play, and you'll deliver information when and where employees are.

    We consume messages differently than in the past (seemingly from all angles, all the time), and breaking through the communication clutter means reaching employees frequently and in multiple formats. Your most effective vehicles -- think of them as your team's starters -- will depend on your employees' preferences, access, and age (as well as your budget).

    The key is to build a cohesive team, a coordinated mix of print, electronic, video, one-on-one personal communication, and other media.

    See Resource Section Item #7 for a great example of a highly effective, one-minute video. And also see Resource Section Item #8 for an example of an editorial production plan using all media.

    What percentage of your communication shall represent each medium? In other words, how much "playing time" should you give each player? Here's a little trick we use (until now a "trade secret"):

    Think of your seasonal communication campaign as a movie or a new book.

    The story is the focus and it resides online or in print.

    The story can be consumed in parts or segments over time.

    Newsletters, posters and brochures excerpt and promote the story.

    The goal is to get people interested in the story.

    You really can't exaggerate or overuse this analogy. It gets your team thinking about the two pillars of communication -- print and electronic. The question about where to put content become self-evident. You'll focus on promotion and also stay focused on the quality of the story.

    By putting all media to work, you'll embody a key truth of communication: Each person retains information in preferred styles (some by hearing, some by reading and studying, etc.), but a sensory blend is always most effective. And a little gimmick like imagining you're producing and marketing a story (via book or movie) can make the process creative and fun.

    6. Connect people using new media tools.

    Traditional communication methods are important, but are they interesting to your employees -- especially to younger, highly connected ones?

    Health and benefits communication doesn't have be ho-hum. Social media can make it a-ha!

    Beth Gleba, corporate information manager for IKEA North America, decided that to help employees make better healthcare decisions, she shouldn't expect them to actually read mailed information packets. The company sent a Twitter message to employees: "If I don't enroll in benefits now, can I do it later? Go here b4 it's too late," pointing them to IKEA's employee Website.

    "We wanted to talk to our employees in the same way they are talking," Gleba says. "We wanted to use our resources in the smartest way possible."

    IKEA mapped out how it wanted to use Twitter, creating categories the company wanted to write about, such as open enrollment and wellness. Then the firm wrote 50 "tweets" in advance and scheduled the days and times when it wanted to send them out. Gleba says tweeting helps to simplify healthcare into terms her employees understand. Comments to tweets represent various viewpoints, not just the company line, she says.

    Social media gives companies a new, energizing, inexpensive way to click with employees who appreciate immediacy and interaction.

    Perhaps the best benefit: You no longer have to do all the communicating. Messages posted on blogs and sites such as Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn are frequently shared and forwarded. They spread virally and spark dialogue.

    Your community (your world) is filled with problem solvers, ideas, and volunteers that can bring more power, perspective and clarity to your employee communication.

    The tools to make it happen are at your fingertips.

    7. Promote your program and build a sense of urgency.

    Any item looks more attractive and feels more stimulating if it has great packaging.

    You've made the gifts -- a comprehensive wellness program, new employee benefit options, etc. -- so what does the wrapping look like? What will make employees' eyes light up in a way that leads to self-discovery? How are you promoting what you have?

    Remember IKEA's tweet: "Go here b4 it's too late."

    People appreciate a blend of fundamental and fun -- compelling reasons to participate along with enjoyment and entertainment. They want to hear the "take-away" without thinking, "Sheesh, this will take all day." Benefits, not hassle. And a compelling reason to act now!

    There's no rulebook for creating engagement and building a sense of urgency among employees, says John Baldoni, an executive coach, speaker and author. "The challenge is to generate enthusiasm that will translate into participation." He says most organizations inform (explain a program in general terms), involve (communicate the payoff if employees participate), and invite (ask for participation).

    But the key word is ignite. Promotion needs emotion.

    "Excite their imaginations by talking about what will happen when the initiative is a success," Baldoni says. Hail your program at every opportunity and always plan ahead, he suggests. For example, set up a graduation ceremony. Reward small gains and personal accomplishments monthly.

    Every person who embraces wellness arrives at a personal moment of clarity. These moments are rarely the result of facts and statistics alone. Information is best packaged with personal stories, anecdotes, creative branding, and a sense of humor. Do that, and you'll have a blockbuster on your hands.

    8. Build the nuts and bolts of your content deployment.

    Your new communications plan is taking shape. Now it's time to set the structure.

    Building an editorial calendar and production task list will keep your messages in constant motion -- employees will receive relevant, consistent communication at the times you need, through the mediums you choose.

    Your publishing process doesn't have to be intricate to be efficient.

    "Any organization can develop an editorial to-do list that's powerful, manageable, and flexible," says Nancy Valent, owner of marketing consultancy NMV Strategies in Cleveland. "The most important truth is simple: It's best to start at the end, and plan backward from your publishing dates."

    Essentially, it's time to join the what and the when (your communication topics and the calendar approach described earlier in this eBook) with the how (your multimedia components) and build your task list.

    You'll produce what's specified on the plan instead of what's on your mind.

    "Anyone with project management experience will agree that a good editorial calendar is a good project plan," Valent says. "The two are one and the same -- a communication program takes the form of your flushed-out schedule."

    Remember, see Resource Section Item #8 for an example of editorial production plan.

    Valent suggests creating a simple Excel spreadsheet to track your process -- the main tab could track your production/content schedule and another tab could include your organization's basic style or branding guidelines for punctuation, grammar, language, and other issues.

    You may find just the right people popping out of the woodwork to help you with content for future issues. You'll likely find improved guest contributions that might not have happened without the editorial calendar, too!

    9. Customize to your culture.

    "Workplace communications are like radio signals beamed at a certain frequency. If no radio receiver is tuned to that frequency, the signal vanishes into the air," says Nido R. Qubein.

    You want your messages to strike a chord with your audience. This requires communication that's personal -- messages that connect and resonate with employees rather than just inform them.

    You're in an ideal position to communicate to your organization's tribe. After all, you already know their customs and quirks. You already speak their language.

    Customizing to your culture builds camaraderie (Rob sliced portion sizes and lost 30 pounds -- here's how he did it!), builds personal recognition (the wellness committee decorated the south stairwell!), and calls attention (our CEO, Nancy Jones, completed the 10k walk with her rescue dog, Bruno!).

    Customizing to culture is different than high-tech custom messaging as described in our third trend about self-care (see page 9). Think of customizing to culture as human interest stories that are made possible and celebrated because of the type of place you work at and live in.

    Customized communication reflects where you live and work, and why those places are special.

    Good customization plugs you into something bigger than yourself. You can't scale this effort, or automate it. It takes time and planning. A little journalistic investigation can reflect the energy, spirit, and history of your culture. Communications customized to a culture are highly read,resulting in increased enrollment and engagement in the events and programs you offer.

    When you customize content to a culture, you invite everyone to be a coach, cheerleader, and participant.

    The more you do this, the more likely your employees will also become your "reporters." They can provide unique stories, tips, quotes, short videos, interviews, perspective, and ideas you can publish.

    Customization is king, and everyone in your organization can wear the crown. Your entire culture wins.

    10. Outsource the communication work or do it yourself?

    Do both. Look at each project and determine how little or how much your own team should do. But never delegate 100% of communication development to a person unfamiliar with your culture and your people. That is a sure recipe for non-engagement and poor outcomes.

    Outside partners can bring valuable experience, infrastructure, technology, and new ideas to your programs. But you call the shots -- your contractor works for you.

    People will now listen, read, watch, learn, and act upon what you say -- so the quality of the content and your message needs to be exceptional.

    Communication need not be expensive -- it can make all the difference and yet remain a fraction of the cost of the programs for which it advocates. But experience counts. There are endless lists of possibilities for engaging people successfully via communication. But there are also a few guaranteed mistakes we see people make over and over. We covered a lot of those in this eBook.

    But the possibilities, and all the creative ways you can engage your employees, members and community, are endless. Sin bravely as you challenge old stereotypes, become less clinical, and actually talk about issues relevant to life in addition to a piece of data. If it isn't fun, something isn't right. If your family wouldn't connect with the message neither will anyone else's.

    Excellent communication? You'll know when you see it -- because it's real. It's emotional. It's a new perspective. Hold any business partner to that standard when developing communications.

    Summary

    The simple solution presents itself last.

    That's what it seems like when you are working on a problem. In hindsight, the solution appears obvious, as if it were in front of you the whole time. This is our favorite saying at Hope Health. And it's proved itself repeatedly during our nearly 30 years in business.

    We love the phrase because it's plain and true: The factor that finally motivates a person to change, the solution to a perplexing problem, the idea that illuminates a light bulb within us -- none of them exists in some faraway, fantastical realm.

    They've always been in front of us, completely accessible, the whole time. Like the invisible force of "lift," which the Wright Brothers captured with their wind tunnel.

    We've just been use to seeing things, digesting things, processing things, and doing things in a familiar way. In essence, we have giant protective filters inside our heads and our hearts.

    When we let go and start discovering, a new world opens.

    Uncovering creative communication solutions has less to do with invention and more to do with recognition, with looking at the world the way an artist does -- with fresh perspective on common ingredients.

    It's time to start asking "why?" and "what else?" It's time to scrap the old playbook.

    And it's time to get your team involved and ready. Keep in mind the importance of input, of asking new questions, getting new feedback, and empowering new voices.

    When considering ways to improve communication, most managers think of how to deliver messages, not receive them. Better listening leads to improved understanding of employees' goals and fears, which yields more effective messages.

    One of the least productive things an organization can do is get too comfortable, to believe the current way is the only way.

    The simple solution presents itself last.

    And after three decades of experiencing, listening, learning, consulting, tinkering and evolving, we always come home to the basics. Simplify!

    About the authors

    Shawn M. Connors

    President & Founder, Hope Health

    Shawn believes behavior change requires a mix of both art and science. He founded the International Health Awareness Center, Inc. (IHAC) in 1981, which focuses on the importance of communication in positively affecting workplace cultures. In addition, Hope Health distributes the renowned HOPE Health Letter® and popular new eMazine electronic newsletter. Recently, he has worked with a talented team to develop a workable, realistic health communication system, empowering thousands of workplaces and community-based clients to communicate more effectively with new media. Shawn has earned the respect of marketing professionals and health educators alike.

    William J. Mayer, MD, MPH

    Medical Editor, Hope Health

    William is Hope Health's medical editor. He is board-certified in preventive medicine, has served as a program director at the National Cancer Institute, was a co-leader serving Fortune 100 clients in healthcare consulting at Watson Wyatt Worldwide, and currently serves as vice president at Bronson Healthcare Group, a not-for-profit, tertiary healthcare system that won the 2005 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award. William has authored publications in the American Journal of Public Health and Seminars in Oncology, has contributed several book chapters, and has served as a reviewer for the New England Journal of Medicine.

    About Hope Health

    Hope Health, based in Kalamazoo, MI, specializes in producing easy-to-read health and lifestyle content. For 30 years, it has served workplaces, health plans and communities -- more than 3,000 clients in all 50 states. Hope Health employees combine their expertise in health, marketing, wellness, benefits, technical writing and design to create a powerful employee communication engine.

    Click here to view a short video that will change your perspective on wellness.

    Check out our wide range of free resource material at HopeHealth.com.

    We can help you develop and implement your communication strategy. Just give us a call at (800) 334-4094, or email Shawn Connors at info@hopehealth.com.

    Acknowledgements

    The authors thank the following people for helping to make this eBook possible:

    Ken Holtyn, who first started talking about the importance of positive workplace cultures 25 years ago. And Ken's friend, Judd Allen, PhD, who has championed the concept of positive cultures for years.

    Darin Painter, an exceptional writer and leading expert in social media. He brought out the best in our experiences and passion for health communication.

    Tim Elliott, a designer and "wise old owl" like no other. He excels at using creativity to maximize function and thankfully points out the "blinding flash of the obvious."

    Stephanie Stephens, an accomplished health journalist and media personality. She worked tirelessly to help us articulate our core philosophical foundations and review of the literature.

    Kerry Juhl, an experienced coach, manager, writer, and speaker on all things wellness. She kept our feet on the ground by reminding us what happens on the front line in behavior change.

    Audrey Riffenburgh, a national thought leader on the subject of plain language in health education. She has shown us how clear writing benefits people at every level of literacy.

    Mark Nudelman, president of the Hope Heart Institute, Bellevue, WA, for showing us that behavior change is most sustainable when it starts with kids. We're proud to support the Kids Take Heart grade school curriculum.

    Wendy Haan, who kept us all organized, on schedule, and focused, and without whom this eBook would just be another good idea.

    Our colleagues, friends, and clients, whose positive outlook, engaging personality, sense of humor, depth of knowledge, and great advice are reflected in this work.

    Resource Section

    FREE resources and samples to help you follow the suggestions made throughout this eBook:

    Resource #1: (http://www.HopeHealth.com/ebook-resources/health&personalfinance.pdf)

    Print and post this chart that shows the startling similarities between health and personal finances

    Resource #2:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/pdf/brochures/85.pdf)

    This Health Savings Account brochure shows how employers are informing employees about this important benefit.

    Resource #3:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/pdf/brochures/262.pdf)

    Example of a document written and designed in Plain Language

    Resource #4:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/pdf/brochures/262.pdf)

    Quick tips on how to write compelling articles and other content

    Resource #5:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/ebook-resources/internalneedsassess.pdf)

    Internal communication needs assessment as used in Hope Health's communication consulting practice

    Resource #6:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/ebook-resources/healthobservances.pdf)

    Tap into the key National Health Observances and ride the wave of media coverage

    Resource #7:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/oneminutevideo/)

    Here's a sample of a one-minute video that's inexpensive to produce yet highly effective in engaging the intended audience

    Resource #8:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/ebook-resources/editorialproductionplan.pdf)

    At-a-glance communication production plan that takes advantage of all media and is scheduled in advance

    Resource #9:(http://www.e-mazine.net/generic/)

    Sample of eMazineTM -- Hope Health's electronic health newsletter incorporating much of the information in this eBook

    Resource #10:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/enews-signup.asp)

    Trends, Strategies & Tactics for Wellness Committees -- Free eNewsletter. Sign up your entire committee at HopeHealth.com

    Resource #11:(http://www.HopeHealth.com/freereports.asp)

    FREE wellness and benefit communication reports and articles from Hope Health

    

    

    A free ebook from http://manybooks.net/