Spots Blind

 

 

  

 

 free download from lindalavid.com

 (photograph courtesy of David Schauer)

 Spots Blind

 A Collection of Short Fiction

 C 2008 Linda A. Lavid

 Preface

 You can't always see what's coming. The trajectory is misinterpreted, misconstrued, minimized. On the other hand someone could be blocking your view, on purpose, with malice. No matter what, that something is heading your way.

 

 Acknowledgments

 "Ode to Serling" in Unlikely Stories

 "The Accident" in The Southern Cross Review

 "Highwire" in Wilmington Blues

 "EE O NAA" in Ascent Magazine

 "DMV" in Windfire Anthology

 "Moose" in The Southern Cross Review

 "A Father's Love" in The Use of Personal

 Narratives in the Helping Professions: A Teaching Casebook, Haworth Press

 "The Cabin" in The Southern Cross Review

 "The License Plate" in The Southern Cross Review

 

 Contents

 Ode to Serling ~ 6

 The Accident ~ 14

 Highwire ~ 42

 EE O NAA ~ 50

 DMV ~ 70

 Moose ~ 74

 A Father's Love ~ 96

 The Cabin ~ 105

 Teddy Bear ~ 126

 The License Plate ~ 158

 Shadow Man ~ 171

 Ode to Serling

 

 Behind the professor, up high and over the powdery green board, is a clock that has the unnerving habit of jerking from one minute dash to another. The student considers that void, the white space between the markers, and listens, cutting out the sounds of shuffling feet and coughs. Riveted to the clock, she counts off seconds one Mississippi, two Mississippi anticipating when another segment of time, swallowed up by eternity, will pass. Suddenly, she is struck by her own criminal boredom. What's the point of such wastefulness? She pulls her gaze away and blinks at the philosophy professor, a man thick around the middle with black-frame glasses. His lips are moving. "To understand Kant's Categorical Imperative . . ." And the sentence dissolves into jargon. Her mind segues to other profundities What he's like in bed? And would his predilections complement her own?

 He has the habit of striding across the room, talking to the air in front of him, flailing his arms on occasion. He's in his own world, the world of ethics and righteousness and dead men. He stops, faces the class and makes an emphatic point "morality must be rational." She scribbles his words into a notebook for short-term future reference. The value of such obscure wisdom only lasts a semester when it can be regurgitated on an exam or paper then duly forgotten. She looks back up.

 He adjusts his glasses, an idiosyncratic trait, then continues the path he has microscopically worn in the linoleum. She imagines the bridge of his nose is red and permanently marked from the constant rubbing of plastic against flesh.

 "Universality must be applied in Kant's theory of ethics. Do as we do, not do as I do, if you will."

 His words are meaningless, so removed from her own reality. Still, his passion for the topic is endearing. Passion in any form, she has decided, is admirable. Without it nothing would be invented or cured; no mountain climbed, no stone left unturned. Still, what drives passion may thwart other sensibilities. His pants have a sheen to them, as if he has worn them too long and regularly. His shoes are especially troubling. They are sneakers of no particular brand, most likely comprised of synthetic material that harbors foot odor caused by happily multiplying bacteria, perhaps spirilla, tailed and energetic. She'd rather not dwell on this. She listens.

 "For your assignment, take any one of the Ten Commandments, apply Kant's Categorical Imperative and argue a case for validation. Any questions?"

 He looks into the well of the class and, for the first time, his glance becomes personal. In the briefest of moments, they connect. Each other's face is somehow taken in by his and her optic nerves, flashed upside down, then inverted until each brain has an image. And, remarkably, with this image neurons cross the great divide and an explosion of sorts begins. Suddenly she feels heated. Pheromones are released and a corner is turned. His nakedness is imagined. Doughy, she suspects, and more jiggly than she's used to. Still, there may be some quirk, some odd trait that she'll be able to focus on, that will feed the pre-orgasmic state, the growing crescendo of heat and point of no return. But what? His smell, perhaps the hint of cologne, something lemony that soon evaporates as their hearts pound away, as their thrusts take on a life of their own.

 He scans the class for any hands. None are being raised.

 She then wonders is he an open-eyed lover or does he prefer to keep his eyes closed? Mentally, she removes his glasses. Nothing is more naked than a person without their glasses. His eyebrows are bushy. That much she can tell. But are his eyes beady or a speckled hazel that changes color? Does it matter? She moves on. There's no telltale sign of any sexual organ, no slight bulge or thickness off to the side. Apparently, it's neatly tucked away, buried in layers of material that have been zipped and buttoned. Or maybe it's retracted and minuscule. Her gaze drops to his feet. Yes, maybe so. Still, there's hope. He may be the kind of man, who, realizing his limitations, tries harder, who understands nuance the whisper, the squeeze, the spot both hidden and not. Intellectuals are like that, full of rampant curiosity and experimentation. There may be potential here.

 "Very well," he says. "See you on Friday." And notebooks are slammed shut.

 

 The professor lives in a rented room where, when he's not translating obscure Hegelian passages, he surfs websites for cheap DVDs that can be delivered in plain brown wrappers. Intermittent among errant pages of his dissertation are Girls Gone Wild, Volumes One through ad infinitum. Philosophy and sex are the two driving forces in his life and, he would argue, the entwining roots of any great historical movement. Case in point, take any war for instance, or the Age of Enlightenment. Who can deny or refute that the seminal cause of either is the respective enslavement (war) or freedom (invention) of sexuality and thought. And for this reason, he considers himself a total man, a manly man, who approaches life with both vigorous intellect and a staunch appetite for sex, with or without a partner.

 The woman in the second row seems interested. He knows the signs the unblinking stare, the subtle nod for him to continue. To test the waters, he walks to the window. If her eyes are still on him, there may be a budding opportunity to both explain Phenomenology and slap her rear, make her moan.

 It is the beauty of his job friendly banter with colleagues on the meaning of life during the day, sexual excursions in the evening hours with female students who want a story to tell when they return home for the holidays a story, he is fairly certain, about a smoldering philosopher who rocks their world.

 He turns, and yes, the young woman remains intrigued. Her note-taking has suddenly stopped and no matter where he steps, her eyes follow. He assesses.

 She is not unattractive, although he prefers blondes, ones with cantaloupe breasts that pull at buttons and have trouble being contained; breasts that stay full and perky no matter what position she's in, breasts that respond to his every tweak and nibble. Unfortunately, however, this woman is seated, and of course, clothed. What lurks beneath the sweatshirt remains a mystery, but then mysteries are meant to be probed, savored, solved, and he is always up for the challenge. That is not to say there isn't a recurrent snag, a complication of ethics, specifically whether her charms can be averaged into her grade as extra credit. In the past, this has been an issue and he's felt rather used. So he plays by two explicit rules that must be mutually agreed upon before any bodily fluids are exchanged neither party can be disparaging of a person's belief or weight. Everything else, including getting a D for the course, is fair game.

 He doesn't know her name and would prefer not to, never to. There's something about anonymity that excites him, like in the videos. Few words are exchanged, some vulnerability is shown, and magically clothes come off. The move. He's tried many but finds one particularly successful assuming she lingers at the end of class and fumbles with her notebook. How coy some girls can be, and how so very predictable. The chase is such a curious blend of feigned advance and retreat, a dance, a cha cha cha. His motor is running.

 

 At 10:50 a.m. in Baldy Hall on the university campus a collision is about to take place. Signals are misconstrued. Flashing lights are ignored. It can't be helped. It is the nature of magnetic fields.

 "Hello," he says.

 "Hi," she responds.

 

 The Accident

 Katya, unfazed, sits on their couch, while Lew slams the kitchen cupboard doors one after another, loudly, deliberately. He's trying to get her attention, she imagines, waiting for her to scurry in and ask what's wrong, but she isn't going to nibble, not after thirty-seven years of marriage, not after being a fish on a hook once too often. Closing her eyes, Katya imagines standing on a sunny beach at the water's edge with tiny waves nipping at her toes. Suddenly, a clamor of metal erupts. Katya jolts upright and looks toward the kitchen. He must have pulled the silverware drawer out too far. After a few moments, she hears the singular clink of odd pieces of flatware being returned to their molded spots. Well, Katya thinks, that should keep him quiet for a while. She settles back into the sofa and closes her eyes again. Her two o'clock appointment had phoned yesterday calling on a line with static and background traffic noise. He seemed in a rush, asking if he could come around in the morning, at eight, if you can imagine that! He even tried to bribe her with muffins. What was it about men, always trying to arrange you into their schedules?

 "Kay!" Lew yells.

 Katya opens her eyes. "Yes dear."

 "Where's the damn sugar?"

 Sugar. So that's what all this clatter is about. The measly sugar which she never uses. And swearing besides.

 "Kay, did you hear me?"

 After an unhurried pause, she answers. "On the counter, near the pot."

 Lew lumbers into the living room.

 "That's the first place I looked. It's not there."

 "Maybe you took the bowl into the garage, and stop calling me Kay. I'm Katya, especially when people are over."

 His gaze darts around the room. "What people?"

 Katya ignores him. "I have a reading in five minutes," she tells him. "I need to study."

 Her husband pats his chest pockets, then feels his legs. What's he looking for - his car keys? Is he about to leave? That was the problem with having strangers visit their home. She never knew if she'd need protection.

 "Lew, you promised to stay."

 Lew turns away. "A half hour. That's it, Kay. I have to finish up on the Noonan's garage."

 "Katya. It's Katya," she reminds him.

 He waves his hand as if he's heard enough and trudges back into the kitchen. She reaches for her business cards and pulls one out. The red block letters read:

 KATYA - HAND READER

 She admires her name - KATYA, mysterious yet tasteful, and so much better than boring "Kay". It sounds gypsy, not that she's ever known one. But she can imagine a dark-haired woman dancing in the night around a crackling fire, the flames casting light and shadows around her spinning form. KATYA, a woman with chains of gold around her neck and wrists and ankles, who seduces the swarthy men with her curling hands and body turns. Of course, Kay is nothing of the sort. Not at fifty-eight, not with anemic frizzy hair that's falling out in clumps. She sighs deeply and glances around the living room.

 Everything is in order. Swatches of tapestry dress the sofa arms. Odd scarves - some lace, others translucent - veil the lamps and shroud the tabletops. A line of smoke from the sparkler-stick incense snakes up in the corner and fills the room with a sweet thick haze.

 She checks herself in the panel mirror one last time. The long coral top hangs loosely from her shoulders, skimming her breasts and nicely avoiding the contact of any bulges below. Its matching skirt, thick with tiny pleats, touches the floor. Nothing these days is short enough for her five-foot frame. Still, there are advantages. She doesn't need to bother with stockings, just an old pair of slide-on slippers will do. She then goes into the kitchen to put on a pot of tea. Lew, hunched at the kitchen table, sips his coffee.

 "So you found the sugar," she says.

 He shifts a glance at her. "No."

 "Well, if you can't find the bowl, why not just get more from the bag."

 He turns and peers out the window.

 She really doesn't have the time for this but she marches over to the cupboard and while on tippy-toe, surveys the shelves. She moves the flour, honey, the bottles of oil and vinegar from one side to another. "Oh," she says, "I guess we're out."

 "No kidding."

 Katya shuts the cupboard door and decides, again, not to give it another thought.

 She grabs the kettle and fills it with tap water. Then she remembers - the sugar bowl is on the sideboard, in the dining room with the teacups. She had put it there the night before for her visit today. But Lew is almost finished with his coffee and it hardly seems the best time to let him know. Have him steep with the tea, she decides, and she turns on the burner.

 Lew straightens up in his chair. "Someone's coming."

 Katya sidles up behind him, lightly resting her hand on his shoulder and stoops down to get a better look.

 The car, white and glimmering, has a rack on top. It enters the driveway slowly.

 "What kind of car is that?" Katya asks Lew.

 "Volvo."

 "Expensive?"

 "Yep. Full of air bags too."

 The car stops. After a moment, the door opens. A young man gets out. He's a young girl's dream - blue-black hair, thick and longish that tapers over his collar. He's wearing a dark-brown leather jacket with khaki pants.

 The man squints into the sun, then slips off his coat and puts it into the car through the driver's window. Eyeing the house, he strolls toward it.

 "You get the door." Katya says and she rushes from the kitchen not waiting for a response.

 From the other side of the wall, Katya hears a knocking, then the skid of Lew's chair and his slow heavy step. The deadbolt clicks, the door creaks open.

 "I'm looking for Katya," the young man says. "Is this the right place?"

 "The one and only," Lew says. "Come in. I'm Mr. Katya."

 Finally Lew says her name, but hardly in the way she expects.

 "I'm Austin."

 "Pleased to meet you. My wife..." Katya considers this her cue. Standing as tall as possible, she makes an entrance. The man turns.

 He's even more handsome close up. His light blue shirt, buttoned down at the collar, is ironed. Knifelike creases run down his arms to the folded-back cuffs. He has an olive coloring that glows.

 Katya extends both her hands and wraps them around the hand he offers. His grip is solid and warm; his skin, supple and smooth. College educated, most likely, with a clean job, she assumes, in an office where there are no temperature extremes, and with a girlfriend or mother or wife who does the dishes.

 She lets go of his hand.

 "I'm making some tea," she says. "It should only take a minute, then we'll begin." "Fine," he says, smiling with teeth as even and white as piano keys.

 Katya can't ever remember seeing a man so perfect, except for maybe Cary Grant. But he was in the movies, not live and in color right in her kitchen. She brushes a few strands of hair away from her face and peeks down at her feet, fearing her bare stubby toes might be poking out.

 "Beautiful day for a ride," Lew says.

 "For sure."

 "So how was the drive?"

 "No problem. Thruway was clear."

 "Coming from Buffalo?"

 "Yeah."

 Lew leans against the counter and folds his arms. "That should've taken about an hour and a half."

 Austin glances at his watch. "A little under, maybe."

 The kettle whistles. "Excuse me," Katya says as she patters between the two men. She turns off the gas.

 "Yep, they finally finished that construction after the exit," Lew says. "Bridge work. Took'em two years. You're lucky you missed that."

 "Mmm," Austin agrees.

 Katya stretches, reaching for the teapot in the cupboard above.

 "Here, let me get that for you," she hears the young man say as he comes up close behind.

 His hand lightly touches the small of her back while his extended arm rises up beside hers. It's almost like they're dancing, ballet dancing and for a moment she thinks of leaning back, feigning a fall to see if he'd catch her. Such a notion! Instead she withdraws her arm and turns slightly. "Thank you."

 He smiles again, a broad-faced smile, not just with his mouth but also with his eyes, glimmering and dark. He hands her the pot.

 "You happy with the Volvo?" Lew says. "I hear they can be expensive to fix."

 Austin steps away from her. "I haven't had any problems so far."

 "Lucky for you. Tune-ups alone can run a hundred and fifty."

 "Let's see," Katya says loudly, "I have regular tea, of course, but maybe you'd like some herbal--"

 "Aren't those the cars that have electrical problems?" Lew interrupts. "Excuse me, dear, but I was asking the nice man about what kind of tea he'd like," and she pulls out a drawer lined with colorful boxes. "There's rose hips, chamomile, lemon zing, sass-"

 "Maybe he'd like coffee," Lew cuts in again. "Men don't drink, what'd you call it...lemon zing?"

 Katya wants to shake her husband, send him to his room, do whatever it takes to stop him from being his usual bad-humored, rude self.

 She takes a deep breath and focuses on Austin. "Would you prefer coffee?" she asks evenly.

 Austin's eyes flit between the couple. "Regular tea sounds fine. Thank you. Thank you both."

 Katya grips the handle of the pot and steadies the hot side with a padded glove. Turning toward Austin, she asks, "Shall we get started?"

 "Sure," Austin says.

 Katya pivots around and advances toward the living room.

 "It's nice meeting you," she overhears Austin saying to Lew.

 As Katya leans her shoulder into the kitchen door, the young man rushes over, reaches around her and pushes the door open. Such a gentleman, she thinks, so refreshing, so pleasant.

 Katya slips through the doorway. "By the way," she calls back to Lew, "the sugar's on the buffet."

 Austin brushes past her. "What a great view!"

 Like most of the homes in the area, their living room faces the water. Where other towns have a small square and monument right smack in the center, Susquadaga has its lake.

 The mid-afternoon sun is casting a honey glow on the town. Small white houses, much like theirs, run along the curving road that winds around the water. And trees, hundreds of them, some pine, some still bare from the winter, gather in clumps, rising and falling with the rolling hills. The lake, slate gray and still, without a ripple or wave, seems so peaceful. And the ducks are back, sailing over and around the water, up and down and turning, and for a moment it feels as if she and the young man are cradled in spring. Katya nods to the chair that faces the window. "You can sit here," and she puts the pot down on the table. "I'll get the cups." She steps over to the dining room where she stops for a moment and contemplates the teacups. She decides on the only two that match - the Royal Albert pair with roses. Perfect for her nicely mannered man. The cups rattle as she makes her way back to the table and eases into her seat.

 "Can I pour you some tea?" she asks.

 "Yes, but allow me," he says.

 Katya can't remember the last time someone actually did something for her without her having to ask. She sits back in her chair and watches as he does the honors. He has a natural upward curl to his lips that makes him seem everlastingly serene, and she can only remember children as having such long feathery lashes. Sunlight caresses her back, warming her inside and out, and for the first time in months she feels toasty.

 "Shall I get the cream and sugar?" she asks.

 "Well, not for me."

 Katya flutters. Already they have something in common.

 She reaches out across the table. "Let's begin with your left hand."

 Austin nests his curled hand into hers. Gently she strokes his palm. With each sweep, his warm dry hand opens wider.

 "You see," she begins to say, "your hands are like road maps, with lines and mounts and valleys..." And she tells him about the gypsies and the planets and the elements. She presses and pokes, first feeling his left hand, then his right. The more she speaks, the more she forgets about how odd she looks, or how old, or fat. She even forgets about her husband.

 Lew stands at the kitchen table with his hands in his pockets, staring out the back window. He had summed up Austin the minute he saw him - a know-it-all-pretty-boy-rich kid, who never worked an honest day in his life. No coke ovens, or orange dust up his ass, that was for sure. Lew's seen plenty like him, the president's son, the vice- president's nephew, slumming it at the plant during the summers, getting the clean jobs. Fussed-over pretty boys who were always skipped to the front of the line, given the larger piece of the pie.

 And that Volvo! How Lew hates foreign cars with their fool symbols and cheap interiors. A real car is a Caddy - a car with legroom, back support; a car that floats on air, drives like silk.

 Lew's mouth feels dry and bitter from the unsweetened coffee. He looks at the clock. They've been yammering for twenty minutes. Time's up. He pushes open the kitchen door just wide enough to catch Kay's eyes. "I need to talk to you," he calls out.

 Kay smiles at lover boy, "Will you excuse me a minute," and she gets up from the table and walks toward Lew.

 Lew opens the door wider as his wife enters the kitchen.

 After the door swings shut, she turns to Lew, "What is it?"

 Lew grabs her arm and pulls her close. "Listen," he says in a low raspy voice, "I found a dead baby--"

 "What?"

 Lew jerks his chin toward the living room. "In that guy's car," he murmurs, "wrapped up in a towel on the back seat." Kay cranes her neck back to look at him straight on. "What are you saying?"

 "I was just checking out how they mounted the air bags and there it was."

 "There what was?"

 "The baby, well not exactly the baby, but an arm. I saw an arm."

 "An arm!" Katya coughs out with her hand over her mouth.

 "So I opened the door. I figured it had to be a doll or something."

 Kay seems to waver. Lew leans into her, steadying her with his arm. "Anyway, I pulled the corner of the towel around to check it, and... there it was." Lew draws her nearer and places his lips to her ear. "You've got to get rid of him. Act like nothing's happened. Then we'll decide what to do."

 Kay looks at her husband. "But--"

 "That's my girl." Lew squeezes her tight then loosens his grip. "I need to write down the license number. As soon as I take it down I'll go into the dining room. That's when you'll know to get him to leave. Understand?" Kay stands motionless and Lew wonders if he needs to shake her.

 "Kay, are you listening?"

 She nods and straightens her spine.

 "Yes," she exhales quietly.

 Lew opens the kitchen door and Kay passes through.

 Austin is leaning back in his chair, looking closely at his palms. "I think I found something," he says.

 A shiver passes through Katya. Lew has found something too.

 "See," the young man says, and points to a spot.

 Katya hunches over him. It's a star, tiny but perfectly formed with a center and six off-shooting lines, and it's in the oddest place - on the Plain of Mars, right in the middle of the hand.

 "That's interesting," she says not wanting to upset him. "Stars are fortuitous, a very good sign. Money, fame, fortune. Yes, and lucky too. The whole nine yards, I'd say."

 Was she talking too fast? Was she making any sense? How many times has she watched police shows where the murderer or rapist or devil-worshiper was like the guy next door?

 Just like her guy here.

 The young man beams.

 She glances down at him, trying to find something she may have overlooked, some telltale sign. Maybe a tattoo, or pierced hole somewhere, or blood flecks on his shirt or pant cuffs or socks.

 But all she sees is a neatly pressed man. And she wonders if he is perhaps too clean - the kind of man who leads an obsessive life, who, at the slightest provocation, could fly into a rage if something was out of place.

 Katya takes a deep choppy breath.

 "Aren't you going to sit back down?" he asks. "Yes, of course," she says and she slides into her chair.

 The man moves his hands across the table.

 Katya doesn't want to touch them. Where have these hands been? Wrapped around the baby's neck, shaking the child senseless?

 "Is anything wrong?" he asks.

 Beads of sweat drip down her sides. The man stares at her, waiting. She must say something.

 She blots her cheeks with the back of her hand. "I seem to be getting a hot fla--" and she stops. Lew's coughing in the dining room.

 "Where's that sugar?" he finally calls out.

 "Excuse me, won't you?" Katya says, and she pushes her chair from the table. As she stands up, the table rocks, and his empty tea cup tips over on its side.

 She rushes over to Lew and whispers,

 "Did you get it?" "Yes," he says quietly, then adds in a normal tone, "I see the sugar now."

 Katya returns to the table and stands beside the young man's chair. Looking out at the lake, she says, "I'm afraid time's up." He peers up at her, then reels around and shifts his eyes at Lew. "Oh...okay. How much do I owe you?"

 Katya flusters. She doesn't want to fiddle for change or touch his money. "Whatever you think is fine."

 He reaches for his wallet, fishes out a twenty-dollar bill and places it on the table.

 "I'll walk you out," Lew tells him from across the room.

 Austin pushes his chair away from the table and rises. "Thank you," he says to Katya, extending his hand. She skims her hand through his, barely touching.

 "This way," Lew says.

 The two men leave the room.

 Katya collapses into the couch. She remembers the oddest thing - the feeling she had as a young girl, leaving the movie theater in the afternoon, with the sun blinding her eyes and her wondering what was real and what was fake. She glances around her living room and all its familiarity dims. Lew leads Austin through the kitchen and out the back door. They walk silently to the car.

 Dead Babies. Lew's heard about them regularly on the six o'clock news while he sits in front of the TV with his metal tray and nightly baked potato. News stories of babies discarded - some left in oven-hot cars, others strapped in watery back seats; the rest, plastic-wrapped and thrown in dumpsters. Babies baked, drowned, suffocated. All of them dead.

 Lew looks down at the man's brown shoes. Leather tassels bounce from side to side with each step.

 Rat-stinking murderers. That's what Lew thinks of baby killers. Just like this kid Austin. He could fit the profile. After all baby killers look normal. He's seen it for himself, once the paper bags were taken off and the cameras got a clear shot. Fresh-cut hair, scrubbed faces, straight teeth, just like they've come from Sunday service. Austin opens his car door and slides in. Lew steps back. "Have a nice drive." Austin leans forward. "Sure thing," he says and he rears out of the driveway in choppy fits and starts. From the perch of the main road, Austin casts a wave in Lew's direction.

 "Ciao," Lew says to himself and he watches the car charge down the speckled road that's part-sun, part-shade. At the corner, the brake lights flash twice before the car veers out of sight.

 Good riddance, Lew thinks, and he glimpses at his watch. He figures five minutes to wash up and ten minutes to get to the motel - that will give him just enough time.

 Of course he'll have to tell Kay he made up the dead-baby story. And maybe he did go a bit too far. But she had promised to be done in half an hour and she was nowhere close. Besides she had made him angry. First the sugar, then the kid, not to mention all that garbage about Venus and Mars.

 Lew saunters to the house. He has to come up with a good reason. Maybe he could say it was a joke. After all he was a funny guy. He steps into the kitchen.

 "Is that you?" Kay calls out.

 "The one and only," Lew answers as he enters the living room.

 Kay's sitting on the couch, slumped over. "Is he gone?"

 "Like ticker tape."

 Kay dabs her eyes with a corner of her shawl. "How can we be sure he won't come back?"

 Lew reaches into his pocket, pulls out a handkerchief and sits next to his wife. "Here use this," he says, offering his hanky.

 Kay takes it and blows her nose.

 "Listen, Kay, about that kid--"

 "Was it a little boy or a little girl?" she asks between gasps of breaths.

 "Huh?"

 "The baby."

 "Oh."

 "Was there blood?"

 "No, no blood. Listen Kay--"

 "Then why was it in a towel?"

 "Towel?"

 "You said the poor thing was wrapped up in a towel."

 "Well, that's what I said but--"

 "Were there bruises?"

 "No bruises, no blood, no nothing."

 "Nothing?"

 "Right...nothing."

 There. Lew was halfway, just two more words - no baby.

 She gazes at him wide-eyed, her eyes filling up again and for moment Lew sees her thirty years younger. Her face blushed and round. A thick tear collects in the corner of her eye and falls down her cheek. She leans into him, resting her head on his chest. A tingling sensation ripples inside him.

 "Well, maybe it was an accident," she says, sniffling. "Maybe the little angel died of crib death or swallowed something or was sick with a fever." His wife, all wrinkled and damp, looks into his face. "That's possible, right?"

 Lew circles his arm around her shoulder and presses her close. She collapses into him and runs her arms along his waist, nestling her face under his chin.

 He's forgotten how she feels, so warm, so soft. And her touch brings back memories of a different time. The pavilion down at the lake, the yellow lights, the slow dance.

 "Lew," she says, "do you think it could have been an accident?"

 An accident, Lew thinks, yes of course. A verbal accident, that's what the lie was, nothing more, nothing less. An oral kink, a blurb. Something that simply fell off the shelf. No one's fault, no damage done. She lifts her head and speaks into his ear. "Are you listening?"

 And he is, sort of, but not to her words so much as to her rhythms - her breath, heart, pulse; eavesdropping like some thief who breaks in and hears the dripping faucet, the ticking clock of an empty house. "Sh," he tells her.

 Lew can't remember the last time he's held her.

 "Yes, that must be it," she says aloud. "Of course, what other reason could there be?"

 Her hair smells flowery like roses.

 "He couldn't have done such a thing on purpose," she continues.

 But Lew isn't paying much attention. He tilts his head and presses his lips to her forehead, then to the bridge of her nose. Suddenly she sits upright.

 Lew reaches for her, wanting to tow her in, wanting to bring her back but she slips away.

 She steps over to the window and sighs.

 "He seemed like such a nice boy."

 Nice boy? What planet was Kay on?

 Couldn't she see how the kid was playing up to her like some kiss-ass Casanova - opening doors, grabbing her, and all the time grinning like some goon.

 Lew slaps his hands on his lap. "Kay, nice boys drive around with dirty laundry and baseball mitts in their backseats. Not dead babies!"

 "Yes, of course," she says quietly not bothering to turn around. The light from the window makes her appear small and round- shouldered.

 Lew rests his elbows on his knees and considers the braided rug with its winding circles. Somehow he got sidetracked, made a left turn. Is it too late to go back? He rubs his face.

 When he looks back up Kay is in front of him. She kneels down and drapes her arms on his folded legs.

 "You're right," she says. "And not just about him but about everything."

 "Everything?"

 "You know, about having strange people come to the house."

 Could it be that Kay is finally coming around to his way of thinking - to forget this mystic stuff and get on with real life? "Yeah, it's like I've been telling you, but you never listen. There's just too many screwballs loose."

 Kay blinks. "I should've listened to you."

 He draws her in again. She doesn't resist. "Everything is going to be fine," he tells her.

 He closes his eyes, strokes her back and tightens her between his legs.

 She speaks into his ear. "Should I call 911 or do you want to?"

 A jolt goes through him. His eyes pop open.

 "And I suppose they'll be wanting the license number."

 The license number! He hadn't bothered writing anything down. He loosens his grip and leans back. "Now Kay, settle down a minute. Maybe phoning wouldn't be such a good idea. Everyone in town with a scanner will pick up the dispatch when they send a car over. He's still out there, you know. No telling what he might do if he finds out we're the ones who blew him in." Lew shakes his head. "This can't be handled over the phone."

 "I suppose so," Kay says as she rises to her feet. "I'll wash my face then we'll leave."

 Lew jumps up. "No, definitely not," he blurts out. "You shouldn't be involved. Besides what more could you tell them?"

 "Well, I could tell them about his hands."

 "His hands?"

 "His lines, you know, and my impressions."

 Lew feels an argument coming on. "I don't think they'd be interested."

 "You mean they'd think I was crazy."

 "I didn't say that."

 "But that's what you meant," she says tearfully.

 "I just think we should stick with...the facts. There's no reason for you to get involved. I'll handle it."

 Kay drops onto the couch. "I do seem to have a headache."

 "All the more reason for you to stay home."

 "But what if he comes back?"

 Lew feels the room closing in on him. Suddenly, the air is too thick to breathe. "No way, that kid's gone for good," Lew reassures her. "He took off like a bullet when I told him I was a retired FBI agent."

 "You what?"

 "Well, I had to tell him something. You know, to make him think twice about messing with us."

 Kay shakes her head. "But an FBI agent - really, Lew."

 "It worked. The minute I told him, he got in his car and took off. In fact, he was so nervous he almost flooded the damn thing."

 Kay gazes at her husband. "When do you think you'll get back?"

 Lew eyes his watch and figures in the time. "Shouldn't take me more than an hour."

 "And what about the Noonans?"

 "The Noonans . . . of course, well, I'll have to call them and cancel."

 His wife shivers in the corner of the couch and tightens the shawl around her.

 "You'll be all right?" he asks sheepishly.

 Her face sags, and for a brief moment Lew considers staying home. "I'll get you a blanket," he says, sidestepping into the dining room. "Put your feet up." He opens the bottom drawer, pulls out a blanket and goes back to cover his wife. "I'll call you from the station," he says, tucking her in. "I won't be long." He then stretches over, plucks the telephone from a small table and places it on the floor beside her.

 Kay lays the back of her hand along her forehead, nods silently, then closes her eyes.

 Lew turns to leave. "I'll lock up."

 Driving north on Route 60, past the vineyards and the trailer parks, Lew wonders what went wrong. His intention to tell Kay the truth was there but somehow it got waylaid. It must have been her tears. What was it about a woman crying that made you want to say anything, do anything? He couldn't kick her while she was down. He did the right thing, the only thing under the circumstances. Besides, maybe she learned a lesson, got a wake-up call.

 Anyway, he'd make it up to her somehow.

 Lew rolls down the car window. Fresh spring air swirls around him, blowing his hair onto his forehead. He makes a mental note to comb his hair in the motel parking lot. Then he twists off his wedding ring and drops it into his left breast pocket.

 

 Highwire

 With a towel around his waist, T.J. opens the bathroom door of the motel room, walks out and pivots to the mirror. "Aren't you getting up?" he says to the air around him.

 I see the back of him, his wide shoulders, narrow torso. The slight sheen of wetness glistens between his sharp shoulder blades that rise and ripple under his skin. He lifts an arm and runs his fingers through his sandy-colored hair, tweeded with gray. In his reflected image, he juts out his chin and turns his face slowly, passing his fingers along his taut jaw line. He appraises himself with hooded, sleepy eyes, vaguely reminiscent of James Dean, all edge and adolescence.

 From the mirror, he gives me a dry, uninspiring glance. "You taking the afternoon off?"

 "No," I say. "I got another ten minutes. Got here late, remember?" He nods, steps around the bed and collects his clothes, bobbing for socks, underwear. He then walks to the chair, and lets the towel fall. The back of his long lean body is exposed: solid, compact. He bends over and slips up his boxers.

 My point of interest strays to the flocked wallpaper that's mildewed and curling from the walls. Could someone be spying on us from a hole in the wall? They say it happens. I squint and look for a discreetly-placed blackened lens behind the many spots (mold, blood?) that could be harboring the peeping Tom's camera, and his prying, darting irises. I lie very still and listen for a video camera, its groan and whir. . . . But there is none.

 We must seem like a married couple (and we are of course, just not to each other) to whomever is leering behind the wall since we have the habit of having sex under the covers. No photo-shoot opportunity here. Not that it was always like this. We had our moments ensconced in his office when he'd call me in just before closing.

 Could I take a short letter? "Sure," I had said, sitting up straight, legs crossed, with a pad and pencil propped on one knee, my ear keenly attuned to the sounds of an emptying office: the slam of drawers, the clicks and ceasing drone of computers, copy machines being turned off for the night.

 We'd stay seated, not saying a word as people flitted by, with an occasional "See you tomorrow", "Have a nice evening". His staring watery eyes bored into me as he waved them off. Within moments, beams of headlights from cars exiting the parking lot would arc across the room. "Light in your eyes?" he'd say rhetorically as he turned and drew the blinds. He'd then get up, walk around his desk and quietly close the door. The click of the latch echoed loudly in the cleared silent office, providing the stimulus to my Pavlovian response. Breathlessness and moans would quickly follow.

 He now asks. "Did you make arrangements for the hotel in Chicago next week?"

 "Yeah, the Sheraton."

 He sits, rolls up one sock, inserts his toe, and pulls it to his knee in one fluid motion.

 Wes, my husband, dresses differently, not only what he wears, but in the order he puts them on: jeans first, socks afterwards. But this shouldn't be surprising, we all have our way of doing things.

 T.J. groans. "I can't believe I have to spend an entire Saturday with that idiot from R and D."

 "Oh, big Dick's not so bad. Just make sure he's fed."

 "Easy for you to say."

 "What do you mean?" I say with some resistance.

 T.J. sits back, his knees jut out to the sides. "The guy's a slug. Can't do anything for himself. Pompous ass. You don't know the half of it. Such a big shot. Sends me to get the coffee, like I'm some gopher. Hell, I'm the one making all the deals. He's just there for backup to answer the odd question. It's me that gets them to sign up."

 The company we work for sells edible desserts made from chemicals and obscure vegetable byproducts. We've cornered the market and cater to those individuals who can't tolerate milk or wheat or eggs which are, as some studies show, 70 percent of the world population. And that's a lot of people, not to mention a lot of eclairs.

 I lift my head, punch the pillow and settle back in.

 T.J. shakes his head. "You're going to be late."

 "Cover for me," I tell him, half wanting to see his reaction, test his loyalty; after all isn't that what lovers are supposed to do?

 "You're on your own. Got a meeting at three in Batavia. Won't be going back to the office."

 I scan his smooth relaxed face. Could he be lying? Of course he could. It's what goes on between us: lies, secrets, fabrications of where we are, who we're with, what we're doing. But isn't that part of the excitement standing on uncertain ground, not knowing.

 This is what I do know. He's been married for thirteen years to a rather tall, angular, unnaturally blond-haired woman named Maureen who works in a bank and wears severe manlike suits and who, when calling the office leaves brief laconic messages, rarely requesting to speak to her husband directly.

 He loves his wife, so he says, it's just that she doesn't understand him. I've interpreted this to mean certain things in the hieroglyphics of man-speak; specifically that she doesn't perform the way he'd like her to perform, which most likely involves some aberrations from the norm, that is to say any sexual act that is not procreative by form, function or design.

 In any event he loves his wife, as I love my husband. How to sum up Wes? All American, I'd say. Preoccupied with the lawn, having a spotless car and checking the weather channel at every click of the remote. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but let's face it, it's a never-ending battle; something you can never get your arms around; something that is never quite resolved.

 T.J. carefully judges the ends of his tie. The ideal knot comes out the best when one loose end is measured to the length of his fingertips. He makes an adjustment. "How's this look?"

 "A little longer," I say.

 If Wes wore ties, he'd knot them his own way and wouldn't be asking me for directions. I like that T.J. consults me. Although I have to say, if he did it often enough, I'd probably want him to figure things out for himself.

 He slips the knot to his neck. "So do you want to meet next week?"

 Do I? I smile vaguely. His tentativeness makes me think. When do affairs end? And how? Are they supposed to go out with accusations, slamming doors; or simply dry up, like a shallow creek bed in late summer?

 "On Wednesday? Same place, same time?" I ask.

 He reaches for his jacket. "Of course."

 "I'll have to check my schedule."

 A perplexing look clouds his uncomplicated face. "Your schedule? What's to check? You get an hour lunch."

 Our eyes make contact through the mirror, distantly and removed.

 He scratches the back of his neck. "Well, if that's how you want to leave it."

 My mind wanders in cool detachment. I'm wavering on a high wire in the middle of nowhere with only one place to go, and it's down fifty feet.

 The motel door slams shut, leaving me alone and chilled. Two men, such luxury. But I don't have two men, not whole ones, that is. They're mostly just pieces, spare parts, exchanged, fitted, to meet certain needs, basic and otherwise. What spare part do I bring to the equation? I look at the sparkled ceiling and wonder. Glitter, fairy dust?

 

 EE O NAA

 Jenna Wheeler reaches under her spare pillow and pulls out the vial. Its slender bottle with tiny cork and rounded bottom sits in the palm of her hand like the smallest of magical wands. She pinches it carefully, reverently, then lifts it to the window. The dark green liquid, opaque as velvet, brightens into a deep emerald shade when held to the light. Mesmerized, she twists and turns it as the warm, thick luminescence laps, then dissolves down the glass sides.

 Her long wait is about to end. She closes her eyes and rolls the small cylinder between her hands. Her lips form an exhaling breath while she meditates. Within moments the energy of the love potion expands, warming her palms. With deep concentration, she wills its heat up her arms and into her heart. "EE O NAA" she hums quietly, bathed in the mantra she lifted from the middle of his name.

 For three and a half years, Jenna has been trying to get a man to fall in love with her. Well, not just any ordinary man, but specifically, Leonard Hartnett, her sometime boss in the mail room where she works. She's tried everything from the obvious to the ridiculous, and a little beyond, if that were possible, but then sleeping for three months with a shoe she had stolen from his apartment, or lying within a triangular configuration of burning incense and tree bark at four in the morning with the hope of astroprojecting herself into his heart, might just qualify.

 But such misguided attempts were months ago, having been driven, she would now say, by erratic hormonal levels that have since quieted from jagged peaks and valleys to smoothed rolling hills, copasetically green. Thanks to a psychic named Verishna, Jenna now has proper counsel as well as a money-back- guarantee to finally, and categorically, make her wish come true.

 Jenna makes a mental check. Not only are the planets aligned, her Venus with his Mars, but certain small but significant karmic events have foreshadowed that the time is ripe. Specifically, in the last forty- eight hours, a telemarketer referred to her as Mrs., and Marie from next door brought her two tomatoes instead of one.

 Jenna exhales a cleansing breath and visualizes how it will be in less than ten hours, the true beginning of their life together. Her eyelids flutter as the fantasy materializes.

 What she envisions is Leonard in loungewear from Calvin Klein, an immaculate, metallic gray robe and pajama set, that, while satiny to the touch, is both manly and blatantly suggestive. The robe is untied, the pajama top, unbuttoned. Does he have hair on his chest? Yes, she decides, the softest brown fleece, not too much, not too little, that climbs up from his washboard stomach and spreads symmetrically across his chest. She sighs deeply and wonders if she should take her visualization further, further in a downward direction. But the drawstrings on his pajama bottoms will have to be toyed with at another time. There are still some preparations that need attending before she must leave for work and set her plan in motion.

 She reopens her eyes and looks around her bedroom. Tapered, cream-colored candles, the kind that drips molten wax down the sides like heavy brocade, stand clustered in golden brass holders. She lit them the previous night before undressing in the vanity mirror to see the full effect. She wasn't displeased. Their flickering glow made her dull, brown eyes glisten, and her normally hard, angular edges softened and gently curved in the smokey shadows.

 But now in the stark light of day, she worries how she may appear in the morning when she awakens in his arms and gazes into his eyes. After all, according to Verishna, this is when the everlasting love spell will be finalized, when the love potion will take its final effect.

 She rises from the bed, angles her mini- blinds closed, and yanks the curtains shut. The room is shrouded in quiet, fading color. Perfect. Her only remaining concern is what to wear to a not-so-ordinary day at the office.

 Two new sets of bras and panties lie on the bed, one black, one red. It was an easy decision to forego any tan or pink undergarments which, in the store's fluorescent lights, made her skin appear an anemic shade of dishwater gray.

 Dropping the robe from her shoulders, she stands with her back to the mirror and changes into the red ensemble for the third time this morning. She slips on the panties, fastens the bra, then turns to face her image.

 Red is not usually her color, too harsh, too look-at-me, but in a room with little light, the cherry red radiates a shimmering glow that is, for lack of a better word, succulent. It's seven-thirty, and she only has a few minutes to make a final decision. Standing back, it comes to her: black for smoke, red for fire. And red it stays.

 

 At eleven o'clock, Leonard breezes into the mailroom.

 When Jenna first met him, she thought he was vaguely odd looking, his face, a bit too round, his eyebrows, overly dark and thick. But as time passed, these features made him cuddly, like a bear cub, and the sexiest man alive.

 Today, his jacket is off and his shirt sleeves are rolled up. The sight of his hairy forearms makes her ache.

 Jenna turns her eyes toward her work - triple fold, insert, swipe, stack, and listens acutely for his approaching steps. Tangled up in the din of the mail machine's chug-a-lugging, her heartbeat accelerates to warp speed.

 "Hey, Jenna, what's up?"

 She purposely stalls for a moment, not wanting to appear overly eager, then slowly raises her head. "Oh. Hi, Leonard."

 "We still on for tonight?"

 "Yes, I went to Home Depot and got the fixture I liked. But it may need some assembly."

 "No problem. I'll get you up and running in no time."

 "Great. So I'll look for you at five?"

 "Meet you here. Sure you can drive me to my car after I finish?"

 "Leonard, it's the least I can do."

 "See you later then," he says with a grin. He puts his hands in his pockets and saunters from the room. His stride is effortless, his bulging gluts swagger. Jenna blinks herself back to reality.

 It was Verishna who had helped Jenna decide on the proper ploy to get Leonard over to the house. It was so obvious, Jenna was surprised she hadn't thought of it herself. Leonard fixed things. Whether it was putting the tiniest screws into eyeglass frames or disassembling the copier machine to find that last ripped sliver of misfed paper, Leonard was The Man. It therefore followed that having him over to her newly purchased, fifty-year-old ranch home for some odd job seemed the best and least obvious approach.

 For two weeks, Jenna spent every evening prowling the intimidating aisles at the Home Depot trying to find the perfect repair project that would keep Leonard engaged while he ingested the potion.

 Having purchased a well-worn house, her list of repairs ranged from the minor to the monumental. But she had to be discriminating, nothing outside, in the basement, attic, and certainly nothing too dangerous. A place where she could play soft music and maintain a mood that was, as Verishna advised, "receptive to cosmic ions". Something in the electrical department caught her eye. It was a brass chandelier that came packed in a very small box. She asked a salesclerk how something so large could fit into such a tiny space. The explanation was simple. It needed assembly. He then opened the box and showed her lettered plastic packets of various sizes with seemingly innumerable bits of metal. Assembly, oh yeah, she greedily thought, hours of it.

 At ten minutes after five, Jenna and Leonard are in Jenna's car heading north on Main Street.

 The soundtrack from Titanic plays on the tape deck as they sit scrunched together in her Geo hatchback facing forward. Jenna fiddles with the volume. She wants it loud enough for some of DiCaprio's magic to seep into Leonard's subconscious, but not so intrusive as to prevent conversation. "Thank God it's Friday," she says. "So, how was your week?"

 He readjusts himself in the seat and begins to talk, first about the football pool and how Jamie down in accounting has won three times this season, and how he, Leonard, has been playing for at least five years and has never won once. Some type of record, he figures, and really bad luck.

 She listens to the smooth cadence of his voice and nods with each sentence. Threaded among his words, her thoughts drift and she reviews her checklist for the umpteenth time. Remember, not more than three doses of three drops in three hours. She glances at Leonard and feels anchored.

 Twenty minutes later they're in Jenna's dining room.

 Leonard peers at the hole in her ceiling. "You got Romex. Not bad."

 Jenna squints into the mass of wires. "That's a relief."

 He takes off his jacket and hangs it on the back rung of a dining room chair. Clapping his hands together, he says, "All righty now." He then curls his fingers around a loose corner and pries open the cardboard box.

 "Can I get you something to drink?"

 "No, I'm fine thanks."

 Jenna's smile freezes. This part isn't supposed to happen. If he doesn't drink anything, how is she supposed to give him the potion?

 He reaches in the box and takes out a folded pamphlet that has Instructions written across in several languages. He fans through a few pages. "Doesn't look so bad."

 "Good. I was worried that it would be too complicated."

 "All you need for any job is common sense and the right tools."

 "Oh, Leonard you're so smart." Jenna says as her stomach wrenches. He pulls out a chair, sits down, and with the directions splayed in front of him, he rips open the bags and begins to separate the nuts from the bolts.

 Jenna excuses herself to the kitchen. Common sense rattles in her mind as she stands at the kitchen counter. Suddenly, an idea surfaces. She stretches into the cupboard for the salted nuts and potato chips. Surely, after a few handfuls of these, he'd want a drink. She sets up a tray with two bowls and a tall frosted glass of Pepsi.

 Only one final step remains. She rolls out the silverware drawer. A white folded napkin lies diagonally across the stacked forks and spoons. Lifting it from the drawer carefully, she places it on the counter and pinches the fold open. Two long cylinders, the love potion and eye dropper, are nestled together. She breathes deeply. There's no turning back now.

 She twists the tiny cork free then, bringing the vial to eye level, she plunges the dropper deep into the potion and pumps the tiny black bulb. Green liquid climbs up the slender tube. She lifts the dropper out and centers it over the fizzing soda. She watches, hypnotized, as each drop, one. . . two. . . three. . . plunks invisibly into the dark brown effervescence. She places her hands together, as if in prayer, and whispers "EE O NAA". A smile tugs at the corner of her lips. Soon she'll be able to trade that middle of Leonard for the real thing. With calculated calmness she grabs the sides of the tray and leaves.

 Back in the dining room, Leonard is making disturbing progress. Already, the loopy stems of the chandelier are formed. "My, you're really good at this."

 "It's nothing."

 "How can you say that? I go in the kitchen for a few minutes and look at what you've done!"

 She hopes the anxiousness in her voice isn't showing. At this rate she may have to accelerate the doses.

 He beams.

 "Listen, you've got to have something to eat. Take a break."

 "Cashews. Love those things. Well, maybe I will after all."

 She sets the tray on the table and hands him the glass. He takes it easily and gulps some soda.

 According to Verishna, the first manifestations of the love potion are memory loss and awkwardness. After this, laughter, difficult to control, will follow, as well as a general sense of well-being. Finally, she should expect a deep trance-like state where time loses its continuum and a Tantric communion between souls will take place. Jenna turns on some carefully preselected music - new age melodies that weave soprano voices with deep bass drums - then takes a seat.

 She nibbles on a potato chip and observes him carefully.

 Leonard is absorbed with his project, but every so often between tightening and snipping, he reaches for a handful of nuts and washes them down with soda.

 Suddenly, something draws her attention. His lips twist to one side, and he appears to bite the inside of his mouth.

 "Is anything wrong?" she asks.

 "This A screw is longer than it should be."

 Jenna squints across the table.

 Between his thumb and index finger is a small stout metal shard that he holds up for her inspection. "See?"

 She agrees.

 "Now, the two B screws " He stops abruptly, laughs, then adds, "I'm sorry."

 Jenna feels a blush surface and smiles.

 "Don't be."

 "Don't be what?"

 "Don't be sorry."

 He grins widely. "Why would I be sorry?"

 Giggling, Jenna twists a strand of hair behind her ear.

 He leans back in the chair and rocks with the rhythm of the music. "Nice stuff."

 "The music?"

 "Yes."

 He's staring at her now, taking her in, consuming her with his gaze. Blindly, he reaches for his empty glass.

 "Let me get you more."

 He nods. "Sure thing."

 Back in the kitchen, her hands are shaking. She refills his glass, then pours some for herself.

 A corner has been turned, there is no question in Jenna's mind. His dark eyes have never settled on her so nakedly. She feels a mass of red-hot nerve endings. Adding three drops to his drink, she wonders: if she loved him before, how would she feel with a small dose of her own? With a quick pinch, a heavy bead ka-plunks into her drink. Taking a sip, she lets the liquid stay on her tongue and wash between her teeth. She then swallows. The soda glides down her throat like warm cider.

 Leonard is no longer in the dining room, but stands in the corner of the living room looking at her CDs.

 "Nice selections," he comments.

 She hands him his glass. "Thanks."

 "Mind if I play something?"

 "Of course not."

 He guzzles the drink then exchanges the discs and pumps up the volume. A familiar tune from high school fills the room. She feels seventeen again.

 He turns to her. "Let's dance."

 "Oh, Leonard. I'm not very good." His hands reach out. "Come on. There's not much to it."

 Jenna quickly drinks what's left of her Pepsi and places the glass next to his. His arms slip around her waist, then, rather roughly, he pulls her in. Their hips come together as he guides her across the rug.

 He nibbles on her ear. His warm breath gives her goose bumps. "Oh, Leonard," she moans.

 He holds tight and sweeps her through the lyrics: Do it to me one more time, once is never enough with a girl like you . . . After the song ends, he takes her to the couch and sits her on his lap. Hungrily, he kisses her mouth, then sucks her lips. His hands travel up her sweater and an electrifying jolt passes from her nipples to between her legs.

 The next thing Jenna remembers is waking up naked with Leonard by her side. Light streams into the bedroom through the crack in the blinds. Her glance rivets to the clock. 7:50 A.M.

 Groggy and with a headache, she finds the energy to lean over and kiss his forehead. He doesn't stir.

 Scanning the room she sees the remnants of what happened. The candles were burned to the quick and their clothes lie strewn in a path that leads into the hallway. Two empty glasses sit on her bedside table. Did they have sex? She couldn't recall.

 She considers Leonard's sleeping face, so angelic, so peaceful. Lifting a finger, she outlines his profile, from his hairline, to his eyes, nose, and lastly, to the soft curves of his lips. He continues his deep sleep.

 Jenna stretches in bed and sighs contentedly. Her fairytale romance has a happy ending. And that's just the beginning. She lovingly covers the blanket over his bare shoulders and slips from the bed. She needs to wash up and make herself presentable. From the looks of things, they had been in the bathroom. Candles that she used for decoration were burned deep into their small votive holders and the soft netted bag with aromatic oils was ripped apart. Wet towels, balled up, are discarded on the floor. Damn, why can't she remember any of this? She looks into the mirror. Other than her tousled hair and pounding headache, she appears remarkably well-rested. Her dry skin glows with a slight pink undertone. Opening up the medicine cabinet she takes out a bottle of aspirin and continues into the kitchen.

 The power light on the CD player glows red. She presses the button and hears a slight popping noise. Passing through the dining room, the chandelier remains a spidery shell of shiny brass. Once in the kitchen, she opens the fridge and reaches for bottled water to wash down the aspirin. Abruptly, her stomach lurches. On the top rack, next to the water, milk, and condiments, lies the vial, barely visible but distinct in its clear empty state. The cork top is nowhere around. She pokes her head in further. Her eyes run across the shelves looking desperately for the spill. But there are no green drops anywhere. A sinking thought disturbs her. Did they take the entire amount? Verishna had warned her repeatedly about not exceeding the dosage. Could this be why she has such a wicked headache? And why can't she remember anything? A horrifying panic rushes through her.

 She bolts into the bedroom and calls his name clearly. "Leonard."

 He doesn't move, not a twitch of an eye, not a moan. Gingerly she reaches out and feels his skin. It's warm. Certainly that's a good sign.

 "Leonard!" she says sternly. "Time to get up."

 No response.

 Sweeping off the blanket, she grabs his wrist and heaves his body up. He's dead weight. She lets go and he flops back into the bed. My God, is he unconscious? Her hand shakes as she hurriedly pokes 911. The silence between each ring is interminable.

 Three hours later, Jenna sits in a molded plastic chair in the emergency room waiting area. She has been placed there by a guard who remains seated at the door. After the ambulance brought Leonard in, she had become hysterical. "Unresponsive", "Stat", followed by a flurry of activity over Leonard's sheeted body, drove her mad. Now, totally dried out from hours of crying, she feels calmer, and ready to take the blame. What had she been thinking? How could she have been so stupid, gullible? Verishna lived in a trailer camp, for Christmas sake. Any fool would have realized that a true love potion would have netted the psychic a penthouse apartment in the Trump Towers. Now, the man Jenna loved, lived for, would be a vegetable, or something worse dead.

 A man in hospital greens pushes through the swinging door. "Ms. Wheeler?"

 "Yes?" she mutters.

 "We have good news. Mr. Hartnett is conscious now. Other than having a very bad headache, his vitals are fine."

 "Thank God." Relief she has never known sweeps through her. "When can I see him?"

 Leonard is in a small room by himself. The head of the hospital bed is cranked up and he's sitting with a breakfast tray in front of him. A nurse busies herself in the corner.

 "Hey, Jenna."

 Her breath catches in her throat. She rushes to him and kisses his cheek.

 He smiles brightly. "What's that for?" Jenna laughs nervously. How ridiculous that neither of them can remember what happened, but there'd be more memories to make once everything returned to normal.

 "Just happy to see you."

 His dark eyes are luminous, and he, like herself earlier in the day, has a rosy glow. The nurse comes over to bed. "I'll leave you two alone."

 Leonard's glance passes beyond Jenna.

 "Thanks, Maria. But don't go far."

 Jenna turns and glares at the woman. She is young, with poreless skin and deep almond eyes. Her long eyelashes flutter as a blush, crimson red, spreads across her cheeks.

 Jenna pivots abruptly and studies Leonard. His eyes remain tangled up in the nurse's gaze.

 "Was Maria here when you woke up?"

 "Yes, how did you know?"

 Jenna doesn't answer. Verishna's words echo in her ears. "It is only after a deep sleep, and after the eyes meet, that the final connection, the everlasting communion, is made."

 Jenna steps back, stung by the two radiant faces.

 "EE O NAA," she wails and collapses to the floor.

 

 D M V

 Nothing was going to ruin Mia's afternoon, not the rain, not the long line she was standing in at the DMV. The wall clock read 12:15. Paul expected dinner at six. Figure two hours for the sauce, add in the shopping, prep, and there was plenty of time. Heck, time to burn. Relax. What a dingbat.

 In the line she shifted her weight and considered the menu, his favorite, Chicken Parmesan fresh chicken, not frozen, vine- grown tomatoes, not hothouse, and of course grated cheese, none of that powdered stuff like last time. Oh, she almost forgot. She dug a pen and slip of paper from her purse. Grater, she wrote in a jittery script. She'd have to make up for the morning. She was just tired. The flight from Cancun had been a bear stuck in the Atlanta airport with no sleep, no shower, and junk food for twenty-four hours. She woke up with a dull headache and couldn't get into it. She'd make up for everything tonight. Put on a negligee, give him a little show. Maybe the black lace or the thong and push-up. But she'd have to try them on first, take a good look at herself in the three-way and make sure she didn't look fat.

 Inside her pocket the cell vibrated.

 She fished out the phone and flipped it open.

 "Hello?"

 "Hey, baby."

 "Hi, honey."

 "Been calling the house. Where are you?"

 "At the DMV. Remember?"

 "Oh yeah. Listen, about this morning. I'm really sorry. Won't happen again."

 "It's okay."

 "Had a lot on my mind. Getting back to work after the honeymoon, the stress, the craziness. Man, I don't know what I was thinking."

 "No problem, really."

 "I'm the luckiest man alive. About tonight, forget dinner, let's order out."

 "But I want to try the recipe again."

 "Baby, cooking isn't your strong point. We'll order Chinese. Besides I've been thinking," his voice became a whisper, "maybe we could get the camera out and make another movie."

 "Paul . . ."

 "I love you so much."

 "I love you too."

 "And big daddy loves you too. Do you love big daddy?"

 "Oh, Paul, I "

 "Say it."

 Mia glanced around, cupped her hand to the phone and murmured, "I love big daddy."

 "Atta girl."

 "Next," a disembodied voice called out. Mia glanced around. She was first in line. "Honey, I gotta go."

 "Sure baby. See you tonight. Can't wait. Love you."

 "Love you too."

 Disconnected, she pulled the phone from her ear, snapped it shut and headed for the teller.

 "What do you need?" said the woman at the window.

 Mia passed the form. "Change of name."

 The woman checked it over then turned toward the computer. Her fingers flew over the keyboard. Tat-tat-tat.

 Mia's hands shook. She loved Paul totally. Things would be fine.

 "Okay," said the woman, swiveling around. "Sign at the X."

 Mia picked up the pen and wrote, Mia Fort . Midway, she stopped and blinked hard. "Oh no, I'm signing the wrong name." "No problem. I'll print another."

 Mia felt flushed, embarrassed by such stupidity. Tat-tat-tat.

 Moments later a clean form was in front of her.

 Mia was about to sign when the woman reached over and grabbed Mia's hand. "Girl, you sure you want to do this?"

 How did the woman know? Mia wanted to defend herself, tell the woman that Paul's a doctor and she deeply loved. Instead, she jerked her hand free. Mia Brockman, she signed, officially and forever Paul's wife. Back in the car, Mia pulled down the rearview mirror. She needed to check her make-up, to adjust, to adapt. She needed to not see the black eye.

 

 Moose

 

 At the wedding reception Marcy & Dale Forever had been written across the cocktail napkins, but forever fell a tad short, and they split before their tenth anniversary. It was a civilized break- up, no recriminations of who left the toilet seat up or down, no blaming of who forgot whose birthday. They simply lounged on Adirondack chairs one summer evening on their deck, not a season old, and discussed the situation. Dale began with what most errant husbands tell their soon-to-be ex-wives. "I love you, but I'm not in love with you."

 Marcy took the news better than most. She sipped her vodka tonic, popped a few olives in her mouth and said, "Will you be taking Moose?" He answered probably not since he was downsizing to an apartment, hers, the woman he was in love with. And it was at this defining moment that Marcy stood up and sternly said, with no room for debate, "You wanted him, he's yours," leaving Dale to ponder, in the elongated shadows of a setting sun, a serious dilemma Laurene, the woman he was in love with, was a cat person. Moose wasn't.

 Moose, a 150 lb., four-year-old Newfoundland had soulful eyes, deeply rich and chocolate brown, that belied the animal's true nature. While the dog appeared oafish and good humored (he rarely barked, or jumped, or bared his teeth), unlike most dogs his breed, he had a singularly narcissistic nature, complemented by a slew of bad habits. And so, before Dale called Laurene to tell her the good news, he telephoned Kareem's Dog Obedience School and enrolled Moose in an intensive three-week behavior modification program that cost six hundred dollars, which according to the proprietor, was one-hundred percent guaranteed.

 The class at Kareem's was small, only two other dogs with their owners. A Doberman with a sleek coat, the color of wet pavement at night, was muzzled and restless, as he pulled and twisted his lead, tangling up his master's legs. A Chihuahua yapped incessantly in the crook of an older woman's arm. Moose dropped to the floor and yawned. Disclosure followed.

 The Chihuahua, Buffy, terribly bloated, with buggy, protruding eyes, teetered on legs as scrawny as popsicle sticks. Not only was the animal hugely disproportionate, but as Dale learned, it had a nasty habit of snapping at small children, specifically bolting upright and lunging for their noses.

 Ruben, the 9-month-old, skittish Doberman, came from a pedigree line of insomniacs prone to suspected hallucinations (he stalked and growled for reasons unknown). Dale deduced generations of inbreeding probably caused a proliferation of recessive genes that left the animal incapable of dealing with stimuli. It was as if his nervous system were tightly strung with an inordinate amount of neurons, like an overloaded plug in a rented room, which flooded his brain with near lethal doses of electrical current. What else could explain the flash in his eyes, his constant vigilance?

 Dale was encouraged. Even though Moose was gangly, he was otherwise proportional, calm and, from all appearances, a concrete thinker. Clearly a prince whose problems paled to these two. Dale, like a proud father in a child's waiting room, reached down and patted Moose's head. "Good boy." Moose acknowledged his master's gesture by passing gas, a silent bomb that filled the room.

 When Dale was asked what brought him and Moose to class, the other owners looked at him expectantly, solemnly, as if they all were on a sinking ship. Dale's mind locked. He wanted to be discrete, tasteful. "Moose is really quite good. A tad lazy perhaps but . . . well, he can be a bit stubborn when it comes to . . . ah . . . personal hygiene."

 Eyebrows rose.

 The trainer, a woman in overalls and a ponytail, asked, "Could you be more specific?"

 "He has accidents."

 Commiserative nods followed.

 "And how old is Moose?"

 Dale lied. "Around a year."

 "That old? How have you been managing?"

 Dale wondered that himself. But of course he wasn't the one doing the managing. He thought about the steps Marcy had taken. "He's in a restricted area during the day. You know, where there are hard surfaces like the basement, garage."

 "And at night?"

 "Stays mostly in the kitchen."

 "I see," said the trainer. "Are there any other concerns?"

 Concerns? What was this, group therapy? Dogs Anonymous? Dale refused to go into further detail. "That's about it."

 "Has Moose ever been crated?"

 "I'm not sure what you mean."

 "Kept in a cage, "said Buffy's mother.

 "No, of course not," Dale answered.

 "Well then, that's where we'll start," said the trainer.

 An hour and one hundred and ten dollars later, Dale and Moose headed home with very specific directions and a very large crate. Moose's lifestyle was about to change. At a stop light, Dale reached over and scratched Moose behind his ears. "Times are a'changin buddy." He then thought about Laurene and her silky thighs.

 The weeks following Dale and Moose's trek to Kareem's were emotionally trying but productive. Since Dale had to postpone his move into Laurene's until Moose's behavior was more under control, he relocated into the spare room. Marcy, when home, slammed around in the kitchen and left sticky notes on those things she intended to keep, which pretty much included everything but the rowing machine, vaporizer, and of course Moose. Dale wasn't about to argue.

 On the upside, Moose progressed beautifully. That very night after class, he slept in the crate and woke up clean and dry. Dale wanted to tell Marcy, it was just a matter of scheduling, consistency and showing who's boss. Moose ate one meal per day and was taken out once in the morning and twice in the evening. The rest of the time, he was confined. Within weeks, Moose morphed into a model pet, and all systems were go.

 Laurene lived in a second floor apartment with vaulted ceilings and sky lights. Throughout the day and depending on the angle of the sun, diffused light would cast soft shadows onto the walls and upholstered furniture, all buff-colored. Often following an afternoon romp, Dale, reluctant to leave, had lingered while Laurene prepared dinner amid the classical strains of Bach and the sweet scent of vanilla candles. As Dale now climbed the carpeted stairs with the new and improved Moose (recently bathed in aromatics at Kareem's), he was ebullient. The months of wrangling two women were now over and he could finally be immersed in the sex and serenity of Laurene.

 At the door to her apartment, Dale knocked then squared his shoulders.

 "Be there in a sec," Laurene called out.

 Dale pulled Moose's leash to have him sit. Once on his haunches, Moose looked at Dale expectantly, waiting for a treat. Dale put his fingers to his lips and shh-ed.

 A moment later, Laurene, in a tight, white T-shirt and faded jeans, opened the door. As her glance fell to the dog, her wide, bright smile froze. "So this is Moose."

 At hearing his voice, Moose stood on all fours and pitched forward, aiming his nose inches from her crotch. She reared back. "My, he's big."

 Dale shortened the leash by looping it around his wrist. He then tugged discretely. "Yeah, this is my baby."

 Laurene opened the door wide, allowing enough room for a three-man moving crew and refrigerator.

 Dale and Moose crossed the threshold and entered. Halfway into the living room, Moose stopped dead. Asleep on the couch in the folds of a tapestry throw were Curly and Moe, Laurene's two Persian cats.

 Dale tightened his grip. "Be good, Moose."

 Moe, a fat ball of tan fur, lazily lifted her lids. Upon seeing Moose, her eyes popped open. Immediately, she catapulted from her spot and dove beneath the couch. Curly, having been jostled by Moe's movement, raised her head, pulled her ears back and screeched. Laurene rushed to the couch.

 Dale pushed hard on Moose's back. "Down, boy," he said sternly. In response, Moose collapsed to a prone position and panted. Saliva dripped from his mouth.

 Laurene gathered Curly in her arms. "Pretty kitty, don't be afraid," she cooed. The cat flailed at her chest, trying to escape.

 Dale reached over to pat Curly's head. The little czarina hissed. He backed off and said, "I know Moose is big and a bit intimidating but he wouldn't hurt a fly. Pet him. You'll see."

 "I have my hands full," she said with a hint of irritation.

 "Darn kids," Dale said sheepishly.

 Laurene didn't seem amused and began pacing, holding the cat as if it were a crying baby.

 "Honey, with time they'll get along. Besides, once the house is sold, we can start looking for a bigger place."

 Laurene's shoulder's loosened. She walked around the room keeping a watchful eye on Moose then settled into the couch. "But what are we going to do till then?"

 Dale had it figured out. "I'll set the crate up in the spare bedroom. It'll be out of the way and the cats can still have the run of the house, and maybe (he wanted to sound tentative, but it was hardly negotiable) after I get home from work, we can let him out and have them get acclimated to one another."

 As Dale spoke, Laurene stroked the underside of Curly's chin. "When will we be able to move into a house?"

 "I don't know, maybe six months."

 "Six months!"

 "Well, it's hard to say. But, heck, if you like, we could start looking now and buy on contingency."

 Her face seemed to soften, the downward corners of her lips relaxed and she made eye contact.

 He continued, "In fact there's no reason why we can't start looking this weekend. Maybe take a drive and see what's available."

 Stroking Curly's fur, she asked, "Really? We could do that?" "Sure. Why not? Where would you like to live?"

 "The suburbs, of course. But which one? And I suppose we should consider the schools."

 "Schools?"

 "Just in case," she said in a teasing tone.

 Dale smiled. They hadn't discussed children, but then they never did too much talking.

 Curly's eyes were half-closed. In less than ten minutes, familial bliss seemed well within reach. Dale relaxed his grip on the lease and Moose's head dropped to the floor.

 "There's a beautiful development off Route 75. How much do you think we'll be able to afford?" she asked.

 "I'd have to figure that out."

 "They're around two fifty."

 Two hundred and fifty thousand! Had houses gone up that much?

 Laurene continued. "Of course, a house is an investment. When you think of what you get, three baths, a two-car garage with everything brand-new, it's really quite reasonable. And guess what else? Instead of electric street lights, there are gas lanterns and the roads have French names. Dale, it's so quaint."

 "French, huh?"

 "Yeah, like Arc de Triumph and Champs de something-or-other."

 Laurene's eyes were shining now, full of life.

 "Sounds elegant," Dale commented, even though he thought the la-de-dah names were a marketing ploy for frustrated Francophiles, who, like most Americans, preferred the knock-off to the original.

 "No harm in looking. Right?"

 She beamed. "Right."

 "So when would you like to go?"

 "Tomorrow after breakfast?"

 "Works for me."

 She glanced down at Moose, whose head rested on his paws. "He really is quite tame, isn't he? Not like a bear at all."

 "Yeah, he's terrific, You'll see. So, do you think Moe will be all right?" he asked, more out of reciprocal kindness than true concern.

 "Don't worry. She's timid with everyone. And look at Curly, why she's already fallen asleep. Can't be that upset."

 "It's official then, we're a blended family," Dale said, feeling relieved.

 "Yes, I suppose you're right. But then you always are," she said in a velvety, throaty voice. "Oh, I almost forgot. I have a cheesecake in the oven. I'll put Curly in my bedroom for now. Would you like something to drink?"

 "Sure."

 Laurene got up from the couch with Curly in her arms. On the way out, she bent down and pecked Dale on the cheek. The scent of her body wash reminded him of the foamy showers they had taken and how the suds had clung and ran down her slick body.

 Alone with Moose, Dale nudged his foot into the animal's fleshy side. Moose raised his head.

 "What up, dawg?" Dale said.

 Moose's tail thumped on the rug.

 "Nice crib, huh?"

 Moose stared expectantly into Dale's eyes.

 "I take that as a yes," Dale responded.

 In the background, Laurene could be heard in the kitchen. The oven door closed and water ran from the tap.

 "Need any help?" he yelled.

 "No everything's under control."

 Looking around, Dale noticed that the dinette table was set with linens, fresh flowers and tapered candles.

 "Pretty fancy table. Are you expecting company?" he called out.

 "I'm making a special dinner for us. All your favorites," she said as she entered the room with a glass of red wine.

 Sitting on the arm of the chair, she handed him the drink.

 After he took a sip, she reached out. "Can I have a taste?"

 He handed her the glass, but she set it on the coffee table. Bending toward him, she said, "This kind of taste." She then nibbled his lip and explored his mouth with her tongue. "Mmm," she said, then whispered in his ear. "I'm feeling naughty."

 "Naughty is good," Dale murmured.

 Laurene ran her hand over his chest, then unbuckled his belt and slipped her hand beneath. With each stroke, he swelled harder. Distracted, Dale let go of the leash.

 For so many months, sandwiched between stolen moments, Dale's sexuality had been programmed to respond quickly. Not yet accustomed to the limitless span of hours, days, he wanted to take her fast. Grabbing her wrist, he pulled her hand away. "Straddle me," he said.

 Fully dressed, she complied and faced him on the chair. He yanked her T-shirt off and fumbled with her bra. Topless, she arched her back and he took a nipple into his mouth. She moaned. Fiddling with her jeans, she suddenly lurched forward, ramming into his face. "Oh my god! Something's crawling on me."

 Dale half-stunned, craned his neck to see. "What the " he said and began to laugh. Moose had gotten up and was standing directly behind Laurene. Had he poked his nose into her back? "He must like you."

 "That's not funny, Dale."

 Putting his arms around her, she collapsed into him.

 "You're right. Sorry. Maybe he thinks you're attacking me."

 She shivered. "Why is he staring? Get him away."

 "Down, Moose," Dale said firmly.

 Immediately, the dog fell to the floor.

 "See, there's nothing to worry about," he said as he nuzzled into her, wanting to pick up where he left off.

 Laurene hoisted herself off him. "I can't do this. You've got to put him in his crate."

 "It's in the trunk," he said lamely, hoping for few moments to thrust and finish up. But she already was slipping into her T- shirt.

 "All right. It shouldn't take long. Bookmark our spot." He stood and zipped his pants. "Where can I leave Moose?"

 She looked askance at the animal. "Will he be okay where he is?"

 "Yeah, this is probably the best spot. If I put him in the bedroom, he may scratch the door. You can keep an eye on him and he won't get lonely. Can you manage?"

 "I suppose. You won't be long, will you?"

 "Heck, no. A couple of minutes. Tops."

 "Will he stay lying down?"

 Dale scanned the room, then considered his chair. "Here, I'll secure the leash to the bottom of the chair leg. As long as he's tied up, he won't move."

 "You sure?"

 "Scouts honor thanks to Kareem's Obedience School. Moose is a graduate, you know."

 A small smile creased her lips. "Bachelor's?"

 "Master's, actually."

 "That's reassuring. While you're doing that, I'll get the room ready."

 On his way out, Dale stopped, wrapped his arms around Laurene's waist and kissed her neck. She swayed into him and whispered, "Hurry."

 Taking two steps at a time, Dale jettisoned down the flight of stairs, flew out the front door and ran to the car. The metal mesh crate, partially disassembled and folded, needed wrangling before freeing it from the trunk. He then grabbed the metal floor insert and jostled each item under his arms. Climbing the porch stairs, he had to stop, not once but twice, the cumbersome load kept slipping. At the front entry, with his arms full, he kicked the door open. Banging through the doorway, knocking and scraping the door jamb, he froze. Moe, Laurene's cat, cowered in a dark corner of the vestibule, suddenly bolted between his legs and bounded off the porch. "Damn," Dale said under his breath. Had he left the upstairs door opened? The crate clattered to the floor as he dropped everything and sprung after the cat.

 For a lazy ball of fur, the darn thing was on fire. After barreling down the steps, she hair-pinned deep into a cavernous overhang of bushes. Dale hit the ground and peered through brambles and spider webs. Hunched along the concrete foundation, Moe looked at him with dark saucers-like eyes and hissed. Dale inched toward the cat, digging his elbows into the gritty dirt. Branches poked and scraped his face as he crawled. Within reach, he said, "Nice kitty." The cat's glance parried left and right as Dale dove forward with a grasping hand. A fleeting tail slipped through his fingers. From his perspective on the ground, he saw the cat bound into the open and spring across the side lawn. Dale retreated from the tangle of brush. Slapping off the dirt from his knees and elbows, Dale vowed to catch the pisser and wring its neck. But as he turned the corner of the house, the search and destroy mission was over. Twenty feet above in a sugar maple, Moe was continuing her ascent.

 Climbing the stairs, wrangling the crate, Dale considered his apology. Yes, he probably left the door ajar, and yes, he was sorry. The next step was to call 911, which he would do. As far as continuing their romantic interlude. Well, that would take some diplomacy and a few drinks.

 At the landing to her apartment, the door was wide open. Had he been that absent- minded? Entering the hall and passing into the living room, an uneasy feeling overcame him the chair that pinned down Moose's leash was toppled over. Quickly scanning the area, his stomach sank. Puddled on the floor was the tablecloth amid a tangled mess of broken dishes and scattered flowers. Moose! He must have been chasing Moe.

 "Laurene?" Dale called out.

 A whimpering came from the kitchen. He rushed to the doorway and stopped dead.

 Moose was humping wildly to something prone on the floor. Beneath his tail, were Laurene's slippered feet. "My God," he exhaled. "Moose, heel," he screamed. But the dog was on automatic pilot.

 Reeling across the floor, he lunged for the animal's neck. The dog's strength was yeoman. Dale head-locked Moose and twisted his head to the side forcing the animal down. With the dog hauled off, Dale got a glimpse of Laurene. Her face was dazed and contorted.

 "You all right?" he said with Moose still clutched in a bear hug.

 She sat up and took a deep breath. Looking over at Moose, she rumbled, seething with anger, "Get him out of here."

 Dale scurried to his feet and retrieved Moose's lead. "I'll take him into the bedroom."

 "Like hell! Get him out of this apartment."

 "Out of the apartment? But "

 "There's no way I'm living with that . . . that animal!"

 "But we agreed to "

 "Listen, he not only attacked Moe and trashed my house, but he fucking molested me, Dale."

 "Molested you. Well, isn't that sort of, umm . . ."

 "Of umm what?"

 "An exaggeration."

 She was standing now, pointing to a wet spot on her jeans. "This is no exaggeration!"

 "It's just that we never got around to having him fixed. He gets frisky sometimes. Listen, I'll call the vet and make an appointment."

 "That dog is demented. It's either him or me, Dale. Your call."

 "You're upset. I realize that. Now let me get him in his cr--"

 "Get Out!" she bellowed.

 "Okay, settle down. Now about Moe."

 "What about Moe?"

 "She's up a tree."

 With no warning, Laurene grabbed a kitchen knife and lunged for Moose. "You mother fu "

 Plunging to meet her advance, mild- mannered Moose, bared his teeth and snapped at the knife. Dale gripped the lead with two hands and yanked hard. "Laurene, you're being unreasonable."

 Her face tightened. Suddenly she was an old hag, thin-lipped and spitting mean. "How dare you!"

 "Fine, we're going," Dale said, grasping Moose's collar to haul him away.

 As the two sprung from the kitchen, a pot careened past Dale's ear and smashed into a wall. Fearing bodily harm if he were to make another trip, Moose's crate was left behind.

 

 Several hours later, Dale and Moose registered in a motel thirty miles east of the city off the interstate. They had tried to return home, but Marcy had the locks changed. Sleepy Tyme wasn't a bad place, a bit musty, but there was plenty of land (an abandoned railroad track ran the length of the property)to take walks. The owner was amenable to Moose as long as he didn't bark. The room had three double beds, cable and a complimentary single pack of instant coffee.

 The first night they picked up a pizza and stopped for beer. In the supermarket, Dale considered buying dog food but decided against it cans would require an opener, a dish, spoon, and the dry stuff would stink up the room. It was then that Dale figured that they'd both eat take-out until either Laurene or Marcy returned his calls.

 After three weeks, neither did. Faced with unwanted, unintended bachelorhood, Dale stopped shaving and wore wrinkled clothes to work the beginning of his downward spiral. Weeks of drinking too much, eating garbage, and slamming the ham followed. But a few days before Thanksgiving, Dale had an epiphany. It wasn't about him specifically, or Laurene, or Marcy. It was about Moose.

 The realization came on a Saturday afternoon during a Notre Dame football game. He and Moose were lying on the double bed closest to the television, eating potato chips (his were regular, Moose's were barbecue) when Dale said something about needing a drink. Moose lumbered off to the bathroom where a pack of ice was melting in the tub, and retrieved what was left of a six pack. Crawling back onto the bed, the dog dropped the two cans that were still connected to the plastic web. Dale forgot about the impending field goal, grabbed Moose's face and looked deeply into the animal's eyes. "What's up with you?" he said. "Not only are you not crapping or humping or passing gas, but you're getting my beer?" Moose, of course, hadn't yet learned to talk but he did wag his tail. It was then the epiphany occurred. It had to do with being restricted and living in a crate.

 The next day, Dale and Moose moved into an apartment.

 

 A Father's Love

 

 My earliest memory was at the kitchen table, in the morning, while I made Rice Krispies. I had to stand on the chair to pour the milk (partly missing the bowl) and when I sat back down, puddles of milk and cereal dotted the table from the overflow. Between mouthfuls, I blew on the scattered rice that looked like little boats sailing away. And with my finger, I connected the puddles, making rivers, and when the spilt milk was too thin to spread I'd spoon some extra from my bowl.

 Out of nowhere came Dad. At first, I thought, he was going to holler, but he grinned and lifted me high off the chair. "How's my little queenie," he said. He then carried me to the living room and sat me on his lap. He kissed my forehead, scratching my cheek with his face, and it tickled. But after awhile I wanted to get up. Daisy was crying in another room. He didn't seem to notice, and with his arms locked around me, he said, "Daddy's got to sleep."

 There were many times he didn't come home at night and we were left alone. And every morning, before going downstairs, I'd peek in his room to see if there was a mountain in his bed. It wasn't a problem though, because I knew how to take care of Daisy.

 Then one night I woke up to a loud noise. At first I thought it was thunder. I curled up along the wall on the far side of the bed with a blanket nearly covering my head and waited for a flash of lightning. Instead another sound pounded the walls and shook the room. It came from under me somewhere. I jumped up and bolted to the window. That's when I saw the tops of two men throwing themselves against the back door. I got scared like never before. Shrieking out into the hall, I ran to Dad's room and threw myself into his half-opened bedroom door. I blinked once, twice, wishing what I saw away - the bed was flat.

 The house shook again with a loud cracking noise. I rushed to Daisy's room, gathered her the best I could and dashed up the attic stairs.

 I stood on the top landing, stuck, afraid to move. Daisy whimpered and I covered her mouth with my hand. I couldn't hear any more thuds and for a second I thought everything was over. But heavy footsteps and gruff low voices echoed up the stairwell. They were in the house.

 "We're going to play Hide and Seek," I whispered to Daisy. She looked at me wide- eyed. My heart pounded but I knew I was good at this game, in fact I was the best - one time I hid in a wastepaper basket with sheets on top of me.

 The attic was dark. Still I could tell from the outlines of things that on the other side of some boxes, two mattresses leaned against the wall. It was a perfect spot. I slid sideways between the cartons and jammed my shoulder into the middle seam. It separated. I held Daisy tight and I tucked in backwards, pushing as hard as I could with my feet until total blackness and padding wrapped around us. Once inside I let my body slide down to the floor. We crunched up and I put my finger to my mouth with a "sh."

 They were on the second floor now. Something crashed. A few seconds later, footsteps, the loudest I ever heard, came up the attic stairs. It became very quiet and a flash of light sparked by the tiny opening we had just made.

 "Junk," a man said.

 "This whole place is junk. Let's get outta here," said another, and they charged back down. The attic door slammed.

 The next thing I heard was Dad's voice screaming my name. A triangle of sunlight shined in between the mattresses. "Here we are!" I yelled. But my voice was swallowed up by the thick padded walls. I shoved Daisy in front of me, forcing her ahead. Dad called me again but he was sounding further away. Desperate he would leave, I pushed Daisy so hard she popped out and fell flattened on the attic floor. I clawed over her and sped down the stairs.

 When Dad saw me, he ran and scooped me up, lifting me as high as I had ever been. He spun me around so fast my legs flew behind me. I criss-crossed my arms around his neck and closed my eyes tight. "Where's Daisy?" he asked. But I wouldn't let go. He asked me again and we tore up to the attic.

 He carried us around all day. It was better than being on any ride, especially when we went up and down the stairs. I told him everything and he promised he would never leave us alone again. The police came with sirens. Dad told them we were all asleep when it happened. He told me he had to say that so he wouldn't go to jail. He also said I was very brave and the best daughter he could ask for.

 When they came over to fix the door, they put in a metal one with screws as long as my finger. Still, it didn't seem enough to stop someone from breaking in.

 After that Daisy and I went to sleep in his room and he slept on the couch - just in case. This went on for a while until Daisy wet the bed. Eventually, we ended up in our own rooms and things got back to normal.

 I helped around the house the best I could. He taught me how to scramble eggs and make toast and I learned to set the table and pour beer without spilling any. When he had his friends over to play cards, I'd make sure the bowls were filled with potato chips and I'd take away the empty bottles and get cold ones from the fridge. It was fun, especially when they'd wink at me and give me quarters.

 Back then I never mouthed off because I knew it was hard for him raising two girls. I tried to get excited with him about sports, but I wasn't very good at it. Once we went to a hockey game but Daisy threw up after she ate a hot dog. We even tried fishing down by the river, except Daisy would scream over the worms and get tangled up in the line. He didn't have the patience for our outings. Under his breath he'd swear. But they were just words and I got used to them.

 I don't remember us doing too much together except being together. Kids would talk about trips they'd be taking with their parents or going for rides in the country. We just stayed home. But that was fine for us. Soon I forgot about the robbery and stopped worrying that it would happen again. In a way I thought the whole thing was a blessing.

 Then one night for dinner Dad made us noodles with green specks in them. Daisy never liked her food to touch and she especially didn't like it all mixed up. But once in awhile he'd try something new.

 At first, Daisy tried to scrape the flecks away with her fork but they wouldn't come off. Dad told her to cut it out but she didn't listen. Instead she started to pinch out the spots with her fingers. Her hands got all gummy and when she picked up her fork, it slipped to the floor. He yelled "Eat it!" but she shook her head and said, "No." He reached over to her plate and grabbed it and flung it against the wall. The dish shattered but the food stuck to the wall like a clump of dangling white worms and I laughed. "So you think this is funny!" he said. He snatched my plate and hurled it towards the sink. It cracked the kitchen window. He stood up, lifting the corners of the kitchen table. Glasses tipped and tumbled, spilling milk everywhere and silverware crashed to the floor. "Get out of here!" he roared.

 We ran into the living room and that's when we heard it - "I'm leaving you kids," he said. "Tonight!"

 Daisy started to cry and asked if he was going away again. I told her no, that he was just talking. But I said that to make her feel better.

 Suddenly he kicked open the kitchen door and ripped towards us, red-faced. "Didn't I tell you to get out!" Daisy gasped for air and I froze, not sure what to do, where to go. He lunged at us and twisting both our arms, he threw us towards the stairs. "Go to your rooms!" he said.

 I helped Daisy with her pajamas and told her everything would be alright in the morning. Then I went to my room and sat on the bed listening for sounds from downstairs. I couldn't hear anything so I crept into the hall. I still couldn't hear anything. Slowly I inched down, step by step, until the rush of running water became clear. I crouched down on a stair near the wall where he wouldn't be able to see, and listened to the clatter of dishes. After a while he came into the living room and turned on the TV. I slipped back to my room and before going to bed, I opened my window so I could hear if the car was being taken out of the garage. Then I got into bed and fell asleep.

 In the middle of the night I woke up. Dad was in my bed with his arm around me. He told me how sorry he was for what happened earlier and that he loved me and he stroked my hair. I told him I loved him too. He stayed there for a long time, rubbing my leg and being close to me. I smelled beer on his breath. I fell back asleep and in the morning, he was gone.

 The next day when I went downstairs, he and Daisy were talking and laughing. He kidded me about being a sleepy head and I sat down and had some toast. It was a spring morning. We finished breakfast, grabbed our lunches and headed out the door. He kissed Daisy and she skipped out in front of me. He then told me he acted silly the night before. I said it was okay.

 As I left the kitchen, he slid his hand from my waist to my backside and gave me a pat. I turned around and looked at him - he had never done that before. He smiled. I waved good-bye.

 After that things changed between us. He would come to my room every so often and lie down beside me. It was usually after I was already asleep. When I was too young to realize, he made funny noises and would rock in the bed. It didn't bother me all that much, I suppose. Besides anything was better than to have him leave us.

 Now when I think back to when it started, it was more like a dream than anything else.

 

 The Cabin

 

 "There are drivers and there are passengers," my father says, "and there are the wannabes." He takes his eyes from the road and glances at me. "Those are the people you got to watch out for."

 He hasn't bothered to shave. A patchy gray stubble pokes out along his sagging jawline. Or is he growing a beard?

 "A passenger wanting to be a driver," he says, "a driver wanting to be a passenger. Doesn't work."

 "Hmm," I manage and focus on the passing scenery. Without snow, late fall in western New York is depressing, as if the dim, colorless landscape were lit by a bare hanging lightbulb. A stark forest of leafless trees encroaches upon the highway. The ground cover is littered with decaying leaves and fallen branches. There are no signs of life, redemption.

 He continues. "Just as well your mother didn't want to come. Drives me crazy, so tensed up, telling me to slow down, watch out for this, watch out for that. I tell her, 'you drive', but no, she just wants to make me miserable."

 I keep quiet. Defending one was used for ammunition later, something like You know Marge, Christie agreed that you complain too much, especially when I'm driving. Instead I say, "None of this is remotely familiar."

 "It's the highway. Built twenty years ago. It'll cut the travel time by half."

 "You've gone back?"

 "A couple of times."

 "How'd the place look?"

 "Gone through some changes."

 "Good or bad?"

 He shrugs. "Hard to say."

 I could ask what he means, but I already suspect storms rage, moss gathers end of story.

 My father pushes a lever and the window hums down. A rush of frigid air breaks into the comfy heat, rattling my eardrums.

 He takes a deep breath. "Smell that."

 Diffusing into the car is a dank odor reminiscent of wet dirt and worms. I button the collar of my coat.

 "Cold?" he asks.

 "I'm fine."

 "No, no, I want you to be comfortable and enjoy the ride."

 The window then slides up, cocooning us in quiet.

 We are heading to the cabin. The one my father owned for three years. He had bought it when my brothers were teenagers and I was around twelve, starting my period, trying to figure out how to curl my hair, wear eye shadow. The drive was an hour and a half over asphalt, then gravel, then dirt. The place had been purchased to reel us in, to keep us from growing up, moving on, but by the time we were teenagers, it was too late. We all wanted to stay in the city. We had lives, lives that were put on hold in the 'boonies', 'the dueling banjo backlands', my brothers would say. Every minute there had been endless. I wonder now if we had electricity.

 My father laughs. "Electricity? Of course. And running water and a propane tank. All the comforts."

 "But time went on forever," I say, "as if we were in a blackout."

 "Problem was you guys didn't like not having a television."

 "That must have been the problem no television."

 "But there was plenty to do. We had a radio, books. Your mother brought games, cards."

 A memory comes to mind how after a couple of hours the playing cards stuck together and couldn't be shuffled. "Oh, yeah. Blackjack." And we fall silent.

 I was supposed to be taking my mother Christmas shopping, going to the mall, having lunch, but Thanksgiving dinner took a nasty turn when my brothers, Rob and Dan, related anecdotal stories about the cabin, stories that made my mother laugh and my father head for the bourbon. By the time the pumpkin pie was sliced, my father had gone from blubbering to caustic to blubbering again. 'Ingrates' became 'assholes', before he started to weep. It was then, as my brothers corralled their wives and kids and slunk into the night, that I promised to join him on this trip, a hopefully brief detour down memory lane.

 Mentally, I begin a Christmas list. My nephews are getting to be a funny age, too old for toys, too young for clothes. I couldn't go wrong with video games, but I don't have a clue.

 "So, Dad, what would you like for Christmas?"

 He snorts and checks the rearview mirror. "Don't get me anything, honey. Just want you to be happy."

 Oh, brother. My parents never talk about my marital status single and approaching forty, but there's always a lingering sub text in their questions, "Should we set another plate?" , "Did you do anything special for your birthday?" Of course, I could mention Jeff and finally put to rest any assumptions of theirs that I might be too picky, too shy, or a lesbian. But the relationship, at this juncture, is tentative he still has a wife.

 "Dad, I am happy. Does that mean I can cross you off my list?"

 No response. Clearly a sign I'd be heading to the men's department to buy something brown. "What's your shirt size again?"

 The car barrels down the forsaken stretch of highway. "Ask your mother."

 Amid the desolation, there arise the occasional new builds, full of angles and skylights, tucked neatly into wooded areas flanked by shiny SUVs and satellite dishes. Who'd live there? I assume a large percentage are energy-squandering isolationists with more than their share of disposable income to burn. In reaction, I consider the cabin. Its modest simplicity almost seems beatific.

 "When you went back, did you get to see the inside?"

 "No, just parked by the road."

 "Sorry you sold it?"

 "Had no choice."

 Whether that was a yes or a no, I couldn't be sure. My recollection was that the ownership of the cabin came to an abrupt halt after both my brothers, one a senior in high school, the other a junior, skipped school, loaded themselves, eight friends (three of whom were sexually compromising young women) along with a keg of beer into a van and drove to the cabin, where, for twelve hours, a party ensued that would have gone unnoticed, except for a bonfire that spread to some adjacent trees threatening to decimate the area's only redeeming feature the woods. Subsequent to the event, my father was served with papers, taken to court and fined five thousand dollars, an exorbitant fee at the time. Shortly thereafter, the place went on the market and both brothers got jobs in a nursing home kitchen where they had to wear hairnets. I was thrilled.

 "Why not look for a place now?"

 He fiddles with the rearview mirror. "Wouldn't be the same."

 I have no parry, no words of consolation, support. Perhaps chasing the past, then reeling it forward is trickier than one would suspect.

 For the third time that day, I check the signal on my cell. Jeff promised to call. He's probably en route as well, heading back to Chicago from his in-laws in Cincinnati. Holidays for him and his wife are still spent together for the sake of the generations both above and below. There's no reason to do otherwise. My commitment to anything long term is likewise uncertain. At least for now.

 

 From the highway, an exit looms. My father puts on the blinker. "We're almost there." We veer to the right. He's staring ahead. The corners of his mouth are relaxed in a faint smile.

 Soon we're maneuvering along a worn country road that curves, rises and falls. Scrubby homes with mismatched windows, peeling paint, hug the road. Rusty Interstate signs and mailboxes that stand on crooked posts roll by. The newfound wealth and mini- estates seen from the thruway have not stretched this far. Signs of life appear. A cat stares out beneath a car without plates; a Shepard-mix, chained to a tree, freezes. The forsaken animal bares his teeth and lunges at us. His eyes bulge as the taut chain yanks hard. The dog yelps in pain, then cowers. God, get me out of here.

 Before long, the car slows. Less than twenty yards ahead is a sign with an arrow. I decipher the faint lettering Sherwood Lane and my father makes a left. Immediately, we are facing a steep incline. The Chevy engine revs up, sounding heavy, lumbering. Gravel spits out from beneath the tires. I grab the hand rest. The angle is unsettling, unnatural in a car, prone as if in a dentist's chair. How could I have forgotten this? Still, one thing is familiar my ears pop like before.

 The dismal road tightens even more, barely wider than a single drive.

 "Are you sure there are still houses up here?"

 His judges the sides. A wayward branch scrapes the car. "Of course."

 Barely perceptible the path splits and a more reasonable incline appears. He navigates a slow, bumpy turn. Within moments, I'm sitting upright but the progress has slowed. My heart is beating hard and I want this to be over. What if we can't turn around or crash and burn into a ravine? Miraculously, however, there's a clearing. I lean toward the dashboard.

 "It's coming," my father whispers.

 An open area yawns before us. The road widens and there's order to the otherwise untamed woods. Grass is planted on both sides of the gravel road. To the right, lined-up railroad ties prevent a roll down a disappearing embankment. On the left, grass climbs a sloping mound. My glance travels up the hill. There it hovers, staking a solid claim in the wilderness.

 The cabin's mostly hidden behind a sizable, protruding deck. Propped and leveled by huge posts and crossbeams, the porch extends well beyond the sloping hill. Attempts to hide the underpinnings have begun. Sheets of lattice are tacked on in some spots.

 He turns off the ignition. "This is it. What do you think?"

 "That deck. It's new, right?"

 "Yeah, wasn't here last time." He surveys the area. "Gotta be a great view from up there."

 "Hmm."

 "Maybe I'll just get out for a minute and stretch my legs."

 I don't like the sound of this. "You're not going up there, are you? Dad, it's not our property."

 "Don't be silly. Can't do any harm to take a look."

 I'm horrified. Sure it's an empty building, but there's something creepy about my father nosing around like some stalker. "Dad, they probably have motion detectors or alarms."

 "Christie, I'm not going to break in. Come with me."

 Not wanting to either stay behind or head up the hill, I begin to protest when a disembodied voice calls out, "Looking for someone?"

 The human voice is unnerving. At first I'm not sure where it's coming from. Then, I see.

 Standing on the slope, half-hidden in the shadow at the far side of the deck, is a stocky, gray-haired man in a flannel shirt.

 I lean toward my father. "We should leave. Tell him we're lost."

 "Don't be silly," Dad says. He pops open the door, gets out and calls up. "We used to live here. I'm with my daughter to see the place."

 "Want to take a better look?" The guy waves. "Come on up."

 "Sure it's no bother?"

 The two men's voices echo, sounding louder than they should.

 "Hell, no. Good to have company."

 The place must be doomed. Not only off the beaten path, but a portal, once entered, leaves every soul desperate for stimulation.

 Dad turns. "C'mon Christie. Let's see the place."

 My imagination slams into overdrive. Who is this guy? Where's his car? How many city slickers has he shot and buried?

 "Dad, I don't think "

 "Suit yourself," he says and turns on his heels.

 My father doesn't climb the grassy slope but walks toward a timberline where a gravel driveway turns upward. I now recall a circuitous route that travels up and around the cabin, which then merges into the road we just came off of. I re-evaluate the man. On second glance, he appears less sinister. He's wearing wire-rimmed glasses and Dockers.

 My father climbs the driveway and the man walks down to meet him. They shake hands, then both look appraisingly at the cabin. What the heck, and I get out of the car.

 "Bought the place three years ago," the man says as we enter through the side.

 The kitchen area is no longer. Gone are the metal cabinets and cracked linoleum floor. I'm standing in a mud room. The walls are knotty pine and the tile floor is ceramic. A blue and white gingham caf curtain covers the lone window that, from the upper half, shows the woods behind. Cubbies, like the kind used in Kindergarten classes, line one wall. Some coats and sweaters are hanging inside. Footgear Rubber Duckies, winter boots, slippers are neatly paired and resting on a mat.

 My father reaches down to untie his shoes.

 "Don't bother," the man says. "Wife's not here."

 My father nods knowingly and we cross another threshold.

 The first uncensored words from my father are, "Holy shit."

 I'm likewise awed. We are standing in the back of a large room with a finished, vaulted ceiling dotted by recessed lighting. The room is remarkably bright, glowing, actually. Soft beige walls and an open floor plan fill the expanse. A modern, downsized kitchen with stainless steel built-ins fits snugly into a U-shaped corner. Nailhead leather furniture, a couch and two chairs with ottomans are placed strategically around a gas fireplace. Beautiful Navaho-design rugs cover the floor. But all this is secondary to the view.

 At the far side, where the deck has been added, there's a double bank of sliding glass doors. I'm drawn forward.

 Standing on the precipice but still inside, I look toward a westerly direction. The sun, lowered in the sky, is breaking through some clouds. We are on very high ground. A sea of pine trees spreads out before me. But it's the sky that's the most breathtaking. Striations of color purple, pink, green consume the vista. Never have I seen such majesty. "What a view," I say.

 There's no response. I turn around. The man is pulling down a hidden ladder at the far end.

 "Has a loft. Threw in a couple of windows. Sleeps four comfortably. Great for the grand-kids."

 My father nods but seems distracted. "You've done a lot of work."

 "I'll say. The place was too confined. Needed to open it up."

 My father steps toward a door, the only room separate from the great room. "Was this the back bedroom?"

 The man turns the knob and pushes the door open. "Not anymore. Made it into a full bath. Separate shower. Tub's got some jets."

 My father glances inside. "A lot of tile work. Must have cost a pretty penny."

 "Son-in-law did it. He's a plumber. Not too expensive. When did you own the place?"

 "Long time ago, twenty-five years or so. Just a getaway, you know."

 The word getaway makes me smile. I want to say, "get-as-far-away," but I don't. I then think about myself and Jeff. "Do you ever rent it out?"

 The man shakes his head. "Nah. It's only empty for a couple of weeks in the spring. We go golfing."

 Ironically, I'm disappointed.

 "Christie, " my father says, "we head back. Your mother's probably making dinner."

 The man says, "Bring your wife sometime. Door's always open."

 "Thanks for the offer but my wife . . . well, she doesn't care for the country."

 Back in the car, I say, "What a place."

 My father shrugs. His excitement has waned.

 "And that view. How could I have forgotten something like that?"

 My father revs up the car. "They tore down all the trees in front. Place is nothing more than a glorified suburb."

 "What?"

 "All fancy, smantcy."

 There's no point in arguing. I pull the seatbelt across and click it on. The strap presses on my cell. Before we head back, I make sure it's still working then place it on my lap. By the time we reach the thruway, my eyes are feeling dry and heavy.

 At four-thirty we pull up to the house. Not only has the winter darkness seeped into the afternoon hours, but the home blends in too easily with the surrounding shadows. Neither the kitchen nor living room lights are on. The home looks as if the residents are out, perhaps gone on a vacation.

 Dad swerves onto the driveway. "Your mother must still be shopping with Aunt Pat."

 "Maybe they went to dinner."

 But once inside, a light is shining from beneath my parent's bedroom door.

 "Mom?"

 A weak voice answers. "I'm in here."

 Dad throws his keys on the table and heads to the bathroom.

 I knock lightly.

 "Come in," my mother says.

 Still dressed, she's lying on top of the made bed with an afghan draped over her.

 "Taking a nap?"

 "Yes."

 But she's lying. Crumpled tissues are piled on the bed stand. Her eyes are bloodshot.

 "How was the trip?" she asks.

 "Mom, what's wrong? Are you sick?"

 "I have a headache."

 "But your eyes are swollen. Have you been crying?"

 She puts her finger to her mouth, then nods toward the open doorway. "Where's your father?" she whispers.

 "In the bathroom. Why?"

 She leans forward. "Close the door."

 None of this is unusual behavior. Whenever I'm around, my parents take the opportunity to gossip about each other. I shouldn't appease her, but I do.

 After shutting the door, I return to the bed and sit on the edge. "So what's up?"

 "What was it like?" she asks.

 "What was what like?"

 "The cabin."

 "Oh. You wouldn't have believed it. The place is gorgeous. Totally redone on the inside."

 She rears back, looking horrified. "You went inside?"

 "The owner was there. Gave us a tour."

 "And how was your father?"

 "I'm not sure what you mean."

 "How did he react?"

 "Didn't seem impressed."

 She has a spurt of energy and sits taller. "Really?"

 "Yeah. Here's this absolutely great place and he was totally nonplused." I shake my head. "Seemed like he missed the old place."

 My mother's face freezes. Suddenly, her eyes well up and she's reaching for another tissue.

 "What's wrong?"

 "Nothing. I'm just emotional."

 "Doesn't seem like nothing "

 There's a knock at the door.

 My mother grabs my wrist. "I can't see him like this."

 At the door I peek out. "Mom's not feeling well."

 He stretches his neck, trying to look inside.

 "I think she could use some soup. Would you mind?"

 "Right, I'll run down to Chin's and get some wonton."

 "Great idea."

 Back on the bed, I say. "Okay, what's going on?"

 She slams her fist on the mattress. "That damn cabin."

 "Mom, what's with you and the cabin?"

 She gives me a hard look. "You don't know? Your brothers never told you?"

 "Told me what?"

 Her voice is remarkably forceful. "About your father's love nest."

 "Excuse me?"

 Her face crumbles. "Oh, Christie. He used to go there with Mrs. Lambert, the woman who lived next door."

 Lambert. Lambert. Yes, she had two young children. A redhead. "Mom, you sure?"

 "Your brothers found them. They had skipped school and saw them together with their own eyes. Through the window in the back bedroom."

 The floor suddenly seems to slant. The story can't be believed. But then . . .

 "The fire wasn't accidental, Christie. Your brothers were so upset with your father, they tried to burn the place down."

 I jump from the bed. "WHAT?"

 "Christie, please don't be upset. I just "

 "Everyone knows about this except me?"

 She reaches out. "Honey, you're not the only one. Your father doesn't either."

 "Mom, that doesn't make sense."

 "Oh, Christie, he doesn't know that I know or that the boys know."

 "You two never talked about it?"

 She looks small and scared. "God no. I couldn't, not ever."

 I return to the bed and put my arms around her. "Mom, I'm sorry."

 She's trembling. The bones in her back feel brittle. If I squeeze too hard, they might break.

 "Everything's fine," I say. "Besides, that was years ago."

 Sniffling, she pulls away. "It was his idea to run out for the soup."

 I'm confused. "Yes."

 "Then he must still care. At least a little bit."

 Suddenly my cell rings. I pull it from my pocket and glance at the read out Jeff. The incessant, intrusive ring is called dancing raindrops.

 "Honey, aren't you going to get that?"

 With each cloying tone the pull to answer it weakens. I turn off the power. "It's not important."

 

 Teddy Bear

 At 11 a.m. Sunday, Ted Blaine sat in the alcove of his rented room. The chores for the week laundry, shopping, changing the sheets had been dealt with, leaving only one distasteful task: the dreaded weekly visit from his sister, Meg. As the water boiled, he reached for a package of store- bought cookies, ripped it open, then moved the plastic tray next to her waiting cup. He figured the more he prepared for the visit, the faster she'd be in and out. Never really worked.

 He looked out the window and down to the street. The spot where she parked her Cavalier remained empty. His eyes ran up the road. Nothing moved, not a soul, not a car. God, he despised Sunday, the lifelessness of it. He scoured for signs of life, perhaps a shadow or the glow of a lit cigarette amid the dark windows and unevenly pulled blinds of the weathered brick building across the street. But the desolation continued. His glance finally settled on, what appeared to be, piles of coal along the street. Of course the craggy mounds were just exhaust- encrusted snow. Ted shook his head. This hapless view was nothing compared the sequin waters of St. Petersburg. Damn. Instead of returning home to Buffalo, he should have gone west. But then again, wounded animals tended to head for familiar territory. He sighed and turned his attention back into the room. The door to the bathroom was cracked open. Deep inside his chest he felt the familiar ache Stacy. What he missed most was her rinsed-out lingerie on the shower curtain rod. What he missed least were her lame excuses for not coming home, two, three days at a time. Leaning forward, he reached for his wallet. He had made promises (often broken) to limit the times he'd indulge. But it was Sunday and the morning had gone by with hardly a thought of her. Tucked behind his driver's license was her picture, naked in bed, lying on her side, her head propped in a folded elbow. He ran his finger across the tacky, creased surface. In a drugstore check out somewhere in Tennessee, they had picked up the Polaroid. She liked having her picture taken. Before snapping the shutter, he'd lingered. "Come on, Teddy Bear," she'd mumbled through a forced smile. "Take the damn picture." But he took his sweet time. It was only through the viewfinder that he'd have her singular attention, feel a modicum of control, however fleeting.

 In the distance a car door slammed. Ted leaned forward and peered out the window. Meg's solid, squat figure, clothed in a heavy black coat, stepped off the street and onto the sidewalk.

 Ted gave the photograph another longing gaze. He followed the curves, the way her body dipped and rose, finally feasting on those full breasts with dark nipples. His calloused hands, she'd said, drove her crazy. Well, now it was his turn to be driven to the edge. Fifteen months and he was still stuck, mired in a lovesick maze, where all his thoughts twisted, turned and backtracked to the six months they had together.

 He shook his head. Meg had told him the best way to forget Stacy was to move on, find someone else. There were a couple of candidates the landlady downstairs and Jennie at the hardware store, both nice girls, not particularly youthful, but nice nevertheless. Ted now thought of another drawback of having been with Stacy. Besides having to deal with her disappearing acts, he seemed hopelessly stuck on youngish women. Damn fool, he told himself. But would he have changed a moment? Simply no.

 Hearing Meg's familiar steps, he buried the picture in his wallet and went for the door.

 "Effing weather," said Meg in the open doorway, stomping her feet on the small rubber mat. "Every year, I swear I'll leave. And look at me, look at us. What are we, masochists?"

 Ted didn't want to be part of the editorial "we," but let it go. With Meg, he had to pick his battles. He extended his hands. "Winter won't last much longer. Give me your coat. I'll hang it up."

 She slipped her arms from the sleeves. "Don't bother." She gave the coat a heave-ho and tossed it onto the bed. Then, straightening her sweater, she walked to the table and sat. "Chocolate chips today. Are they the chewy kind?"

 "There's a difference?"

 "Of course." She lowered her head and zeroed in. "Usually the thinner they are, the chewier." Her face scrunched up. "They look pretty thick. Bet they're like rocks."

 "Sorry," he said.

 "Don't be sorry," she said with a wave of her hand. "They're still good for dunking."

 Ted glanced at the bedside clock. She usually stayed a half hour. From his quick calculation, only thirty seconds had gone by. God, how did this ritual begin? Yes, now he remembered. The first month back home, he was, what was her word? Despondent.

 "How was work this week?" she asked.

 "Fine."

 "Meet anybody?"

 Ted put a teaspoon of instant coffee into her cup. "I met plenty of people. That's my job."

 "Ted, you know what I mean. Any prospects?"

 "No, Meg, no prospects. How about yourself?"

 Her shoulders slumped. "Remember Jerry, the man who sang in the choir. He seemed interested, then poof, disappeared. I asked the Reverend about him. Apparently, the guy moved to Mt. Morris, wherever the hell that is." She picked up a cookie and held it in the air. "Let's face it, Ted. We Blaines are cursed. No way around it." She then took a bite. "Dry but tasty."

 He sloshed hot water into her cup, then pushed the sugar and milk in front of her. "Thanks," she said. "You okay?"

 "I'm a big boy," he said in a level tone. "Stop worrying about me."

 "Well, you certainly landed on your feet."

 Sitting down, Ted stifled an ironic laugh. Here he was fifty-seven years old in a rented room with a job that paid minimal wage and unpaid bills up the wazoo. "I certainly did."

 "Have you thought any more about getting a divorce?"

 "Meg, let's not talk about that. Let's have a nice visit."

 "Now Teddy "

 He interrupted, "Please don't call me Teddy." He was three years older for chrissake.

 She settled back in the chair. "Well, all right. It's just that I've been thinking. In fact, I've got the perfect solution."

 "Solution to what?"

 "Your life."

 He took a deep breath, thinking of the bottle of whiskey he kept in the cabinet below the sink. He could drink it or simply creep up from behind and break it on her head. "Meg, any discussion about my life is off limits."

 "It's not only about you. It's about us. Please listen."

 He rolled his eyes, but kept quiet. "I think we should pool our resources and move in together."

 His mind seized up. "You're joking, right?"

 "Joking? Of course not. We could buy a double. I'd prefer the downstairs, but we could negotiate Why are you shaking your head?"

 "I'm shaking my head because words escape me."

 "Oh. Anyway, we're not getting any younger. We can help each other out. I can food shop, fix dinner. You can take care of the outside, do any repairs that come up. And of course this doesn't preclude either one of us from marrying again. We'll each have a flat. And, you'll like this, it would be cheaper. What are you paying here? Seventy- five a week. That's three hundred a month. Pooling our money, we might be able to upgrade, live in the suburbs. There's a really nice place next to Marge's. You remember Marge . . . ."

 Her eyes sparkled. She was on a roll.

 Ted stopped listening, tuned out. Stacy and he had lived in a motel for six months. They had looked at apartments, but he liked the smallness of the motel room, the intimacy. She was never more than a few steps away, doing the stuff women did painting toenails, trying on clothes, showering in a steamy haze.

 "There's only one snag. Ted, are you listening?"

 "Yes. And what's that?"

 "Now don't get bent out of shape, but if you're still married, she'd be entitled to the property. We can't let that happen." Remarkably, a trap door opened. He nodded. "Absolutely."

 Her face lit up. "So you like the idea?"

 "Meg, it's terrific. But like you said, until I'm divorced it's out of the question. But a divorce costs money. Money I don't have."

 "I'll stake you."

 "I can't take your money, Meg."

 "You can pay me back. We'll consider it a loan."

 "I'm in too much debt as it is." His mind raced with other arguments. "I gotta get myself situated. Besides weren't you talking about getting a condo? Houses can be expensive. We both know that."

 She stared off. "Yes, that's true, but "

 "But what?"

 She gave him a solemn look, stone-like.

 "Ted, she's out there."

 "Who's out where?"

 "That woman, that Stacy."

 Ted raised his hands. "We agreed not to talk about her."

 "But as long as you're married, her bills are yours. Aren't you taking a bigger chance by staying married than finally ending it? She already sent you that credit card bill. How many more will follow? How can you be sure she's not charging her way across the planet? "

 Ted felt he was up against a wall with a firing squad taking potshots. That's how his sister made him feel, cornered, helpless, with no exit. Trying to remain calm, he ignored her and looked out the window.

 "Don't have any answers, do you Ted? Always in denial. I don't know why I bother."

 The fuse was now lit. Feeling a slight burn, he challenged her gaze. "Bother Meg? Bother with what?"

 "With coming here every Sunday, trying to cheer you up. You know I could be doing other things. Takes almost two hours out of my day, my day off mind you. And for what, to see you moping around? Sometimes, I think you want to get back with that slut."

 "Don't call her that," he said.

 "Slut's being nice."

 "I think you should leave."

 "You're throwing me out?" She hauled herself from the chair. "Fine. I'm going. But not before I say one more thing. Don't you roll your eyes at me."

 Ted got up, took the half-filled cups to the sink, and turned on the tap. As the sink filled with water, he squeezed in some dish detergent. To calm down, he focused on the billowing foam and began to count.

 She was behind him, hovering. "It's over Ted. Get a life. That whore certainly has." Suddenly, the cookies he had bought sailed past him and splashed into the water. "Ha," she added, "Now it's your turn to clean up MY mess. Have fun." Seconds later the walls shook from the slamming door.

 Like wreckage from a ship, cookies bobbed in the water. Ted reached in.

 Scalding his fingers, he grabbed the plastic tray and lifted it out. An idea struck. The molded compartment could be recycled, maybe used to hold sponges or soap. And for the first time that day, he smiled. Sundays were now officially his, to do as he pleased.

 

 By midweek, Ted still hadn't filled the unexpected, but welcomed void, left by his sister. However, on Saturday afternoon an opportunity presented itself. During a breather at the hardware store, while sitting at the cash register, his eyes fell on Jennie. At that particular moment she was down the plumbing aisle sizing up plungers. Earlier in the day she had asked him about her bathtub drain. He had given her his opinion but now wondered if he should take to another level.

 Ted watched as she moved, slightly slumped in jeans and a sweater. Jennie, middle-aged, was nothing like Stacy and Ted wasn't sure if he could make the transition, go from surf 'n' turf to macaroni 'n' cheese. Still, Jennie was not without charm. She smiled plenty and, no matter what the weather, seemed always upbeat. Compared with Stacy's moodiness and incessant whining, Jennie's personality was liquid sunshine. Jennie turned toward him, holding up a gizmo that looked like a cross between an air pump and a plunger. It was an ingenious invention that coupled air pressure with suction, but besides being expensive, it was cumbersome to maneuver. He got off the stool and walked down the aisle.

 "Listen, Jennie." He pulled out a heavy duty plunger. "Don't spend the extra money. This will do the job."

 She bit the inside of her cheek. "I don't know, Ted. I already have one of those. It doesn't seem to work."

 He turned the plunger upside down. "Not all plungers are created equal." He showed her the underside, where the molded rubber bottom folded into itself. "Bet yours is one of those single-edged ones. They're worthless. But this baby here. Well, if you want suction, you got it." Once the words were out, he felt heated, partly from embarrassment, partly from he wasn't sure what.

 Her eyes twinkled. "That's what I need all right."

 He blurted, "Listen, if you can give me a lift, maybe I could stop by tomorrow and give you a hand."

 She smiled. "Sounds great. What time should I pick you up?"

 "Tomorrow morning. Say around eleven?"

 "Sure thing," she said.

 Suddenly, Ted had a date of sorts. As the shift wore on, he avoided her and by the time he left for the day, he felt vaguely remorseful. After all, he was still a married man. But that was only part of it. Bottom line was, and as Meg had deduced, he was still holding out for Stacy. However, later that evening, unwinding from the work week at the corner tavern, he calmed down. He was unplugging the woman's drain, for chrissake. Nothing more.

 At 10:30 p.m. he returned to the rooming house. Betsy, the landlady, was waiting.

 "You have a visitor." She leaned toward him. "A woman."

 Ted immediately thought of Meg. What had he done now?

 "Says she's your wife."

 Everything seemed to slant. He teetered toward the wall. "My wife?" he echoed. "I asked for ID. It said Blaine." Her eyes darted up the stairs. "She's waiting."

 Ted looked to the second floor.

 "Now Ted, you've been a fine tenant, but it's one room per person. If she stays, I'll have to charge you double."

 He nodded distractedly. "Not a problem."

 By the time he reached the landing, he was winded. He stalled for a moment, not sure if he should knock. Instead, he ran his hand through his hair, stood straighter and turned the knob.

 The only light came from the bathroom. It cast a yellow slice onto the carpet.

 "Teddy Bear," came her sultry voice. "I've been waiting."

 He saw her silhouette in the bay window, sitting where Meg had sat.

 "Stacy?"

 She didn't get up. "It's me, baby. Been awhile, huh?"

 He reached for the pole lamp located next to the dresser and fumbled with the tiny ribbed cap. Suddenly the room filled with soft light. She was wearing one of his T- shirts, the wife beater kind she had called them. Her breasts bulged out from the top and sides, stretching the fabric to transparency. Her tits, like pebbles, looked as if they'd split the material altogether. Her bare legs were crossed. Given past history, he doubted she was wearing anything else.

 Planted to the spot, feeling a sense of suspended animation, he asked, "What are you doing here?"

 "Paying a visit. Is that all right?"

 "I suppose," he said not quite sure.

 Instead of getting close, he sat on the bed. "You're looking well."

 She uncrossed her legs. "Thought you hadn't noticed."

 His heart revved up. He began to feel achey.

 "Is Teddy Bear happy to see me?"

 "I," was all he could manage.

 She stood up. His T-shirt fell to her upper thighs. She walked toward him. "Can I sit on your lap?"

 He nodded.

 She reached for his neck, then spreading her legs, straddled him. His arms closed in on her lower back. She whispered in his ear, "Missed you, Teddy." Her warm, sweet breath turned him inside out.

 She unbuckled his belt. "Now, I don't want you to strain yourself. Let me take care of you."

 Ted wanted to stop her. Say, listen you just can't come in here and expect me to act like nothing's happened. But, well, there was no need to hold a grudge.

 At 9 a.m. Ted awoke. Stacy was lying on her back with her head slightly turned and her mouth wide open. A little spit drained out. He let his eyes fall over her body. She was naked and spread out, as usual, leaving him on the edge of the bed. He wanted to reach over and touch her, feel the smooth, warm skin. But at what price? Waking her was never a pleasant task. She wasn't a morning person. Still, maybe things had changed. Hell, of course they'd changed. She'd coming running back. He leaned over and blew on her tit. Without waking she swatted, knocking his nose. He reared back and waited for her eyes to open. Instead, she rolled over and faced the other direction. He then decided to get up, take a shower and make some noise. As the water pelted against his shoulders, Teddy thought hard about the situation and who had the upper hand. For once, he felt he held the cards and could make demands, have her tow the line. Not that he'd ask for much, but if she wanted to be with him there'd be certain rules, expectations no more nights away from him, no more lame excuses for taking four hours to run out for a quart of milk. They'd have to move out of the room of course. Maybe find a rental in a mobile park, at least until he got back on his feet. He could pick up extra work as a bartender on the weekends. She'd have her days to herself and could stay with him at the bar or go back to waitressing a few hours a week to keep busy and bring in some extra cash.

 The previous evening they hadn't had a chance to talk. No questions were asked, no reasons given. Just as well. Why not start fresh? He lathered up, shaved, flossed, then reached for some Old Spice aftershave. It tingled on his face. Rather than dress, he kept the towel around his waist. Maybe she'd be awake and ready for another round. But when he opened the door, she remained dead to the world, snoring like a rhino. He got dressed and headed out for her favorite breakfast, a large double cream Tim Horton coffee and an Egg McMuffin.

 When he returned twenty minutes later, she was sitting at the window, smoking and wearing one of his T-shirts. Her hair was mussed as if she had just awoken. But her lips were blood red and shiny. "Hey, Teddy Bear," she said.

 He walked over to the table. "I got you some breakfast." From inside his pocket he pulled out three extra creams and dropped them on the table.

 She reached for the coffee. "You remembered. You're such a doll."

 He leaned over and kissed her cheek. She smelled like sex. He put his hand on the T- shirt and squeezed one breast. "Teddy, you're wearing me out," she said. "I need some coffee first." He backed off and sat across from her.

 "We also need to talk," she said, removing the lid from the cardboard cup. Talk? He didn't like the sound of that. Was this another ploy for money? "Go on."

 "I know what you must be wondering. Where I've been? What I've been up to? I should have let you know. You were good to me, Ted, the best. I shouldn't have taken advantage of you. I'm . . . you know, sorry." His lips turned into a doubtful smile, as if he'd just heard a joke he didn't understand. Stacy was sorry? Hell, she'd never apologized before. Maybe she turned over a new leaf, or maybe . . . "You okay? I mean you're not sick or anything?"

 "Hell, no. "

 The tightness in his shoulders loosened. Thank God.

 "Listen, I really appreciate you taking care of that bill I sent you. I know it must have been an inconvenience."

 "Don't think about it. You're my wife. We have to look out for each other."

 Her eyes shifted to the cup of coffee. Her thumb and index finger plucked at the paper lip. Something was on her mind. Ted moved the chair closer and tried reading her face. She was in another world, miles away. Taking a chance, he placed his hand on her leg above the knee. She said nothing. He felt upward along the smooth inner thigh. Her legs parted easily. How soft a woman could be. Silky. And so very warm.

 Whatever preoccupation she had, seemed to have passed. Her eyes fell on him. "Teddy, I've got something to say. Well, not say, but discuss."

 He reached farther, parting the moist sticky fold. Her breath caught. Suddenly, it all came back, the desperate, daytime sex they'd had in dingy, chilly motel rooms after endless hours of thruway driving and hard- ons. They had barely known each other. It had been a short two months before he sold the house and they left for Florida. So much changed in so little time. But it was worth every moment to watch her body jiggle and heave. His mouth felt dry. He stood up and unzipped his pants.

 "Now, Teddy, slow down. We have to talk."

 "It can wait."

 Her eyes fell on him. "Pooh Bear, you're distracting me."

 He stepped out of his pants. "That's the idea, isn't it?"

 "You sure you can do this?"

 He laughed. "Does it look like I can't? Stand up," he said, pulling her off the chair. He needed to see her naked, to imprint her body into his mind. He tugged at the shirt.

 "Slow down, baby."

 His body throbbed. He wanted to take her against the wall, feel hands full of ass while she hung onto him for dear life. He pulled the shirt over her head. Her breasts seemed fuller, her waist smaller. Had she lost a few pounds, been working out? Or was she just happy to see him? He swallowed hard, tweaked her tit, then ran his hands all over. Whatever the change he liked it plenty.

 "Teddy "

 "Listen. Whatever you got to say can wait." The words came out gruffer than he expected. "Let's just do it." He then backed her against the wall, grabbed her legs and heaved her up.

 She reached around his neck and straddled him easily.

 He look down at himself and slid between her splayed-open legs. It was like cutting into soft butter. Deep inside her, he began to pump. Her hot panting breath was on his neck. She moaned with each thrust and held on tighter. He wanted to last forever, to feel her needfulness for him. He had to slow things down. He stopped and tried to relax. Looking into her watery brown eyes, he said,

 "Talk to me."

 "You want to talk?"

 Yeah, he wanted her to talk. To say how much she missed him, how he was the only one, now and forever.

 She didn't respond. He had taken her breath away. "Talk to me. Tell me what you want. I can give it to you."

 Her hips began move. "I . . . I . . ."

 He squeezed her ass. "Tell me baby."

 "Teddy, I want . . ."

 He slid deep inside. "What, baby?" he said into her ear.

 "Teddy . . . Teddy . . ." Her voice was breathless. "I want a divorce."

 Divorce?

 She pushed harder, faster.

 He leaned against her, pinning her to the wall. "What did you say?"

 "Now, Pooh, you told me to talk."

 He felt himself getting soft. He looked at her face. "If you want a divorce, what the hell are we doing?"

 "Now listen. This was your idea." His idea? He pulled out and set her down.

 "What? You may as well finish what you started."

 He looked around for his pants.

 "Now you're angry."

 "Stacy, get dressed."

 "I will not." She reached for him. He shrugged her off. As usual he was being played for a sucker. "Leave me alone. Pack your stuff and get out."

 "Fine. But I need you to sign some papers."

 "I'm not signing anything."

 He zipped up his pants. Some of her clothes were laying on the floor. A balled-up pair of jeans and a top. He stooped down. Suddenly, there was a knock at the door.

 They exchanged glances.

 "Who is it?" Ted yelled.

 "Ted, it's me. Jennie."

 Ted wiped his forehead. Damn.

 Stacy folded her arms. "Jennie?"

 He tossed Stacy her clothes. "I'm supposed to do some work at her house. Go in the bathroom and get dressed."

 "Why should I?"

 "Dammit. Just do it." She stomped off and slammed the bathroom door.

 Ted fumbled with a T-shirt. "Be a minute."

 "Okey-dokey," came Jennie's voice. He looked the room over. Besides wet towels, an unmade bed and fast food containers, Stacy's crap make-up, boots, underwear was all over the place. He'd have to reschedule in the hall. He cracked open the door and slipped out.

 "Hey, Jennie." As usual she was smiling.

 "Ready to go? You may need a coat." She glanced down. "And some shoes . . . Did I come too early?"

 "No. It's just that something came up. An emergency you could say."

 "Oh."

 "Listen. I'm sorry. Maybe we could get together tomorrow night after work."

 "Well, sure."

 Without warning, the door behind him flew open. Jennie's expression froze. Ted turned. Christ. Stacy was stark naked. "You have a girlfriend and you're giving me a hard time?"

 "Stacy, get back in the room."

 Jennie stepped backward. "Ted, we'll talk tomorrow."

 "Like hell." Stacy reached across Ted and grabbed Jennie's arm. "Not before we have a little tte-a-tte."

 Ted broke Stacy's hold. "Lay off."

 Stacy glared at Ted. "Fine. We don't have to talk here. I'll just follow her outside. Would that be better, Ted?" Stacy stepped past him. "Come on, girlfriend," she said to Jennie.

 Jennie shook her head. "But I'm not his girlfriend."

 Somewhere from downstairs a door opened.

 "Ted," the landlady's voice floated up, "is everything okay?"

 Great, all he needed was to get thrown out. Ted leaned over the banister. "Not a problem." He clamped onto Stacy's arm and spoke between clenched teeth. "I don't need a scene."

 She hissed into his ear. "If you have nothing to hide, then let me talk to her."

 "You want to talk to Jennie?" He pushed her into the room. "Then cover yourself up."

 "Whatever."

 Shell-shocked, Jennie stood motionless in the hall.

 "I'm sorry about this, Jennie." He looked toward room. "But maybe it would be good to talk to Stacy. If you wouldn't mind. Just tell the truth. It would help me out."

 "Sure, Ted."

 Ted poked his head through the doorway. Stacy had wrapped a sheet around her shoulders and was sitting on the bed. She glared at him. Ted opened the door wider. "Come on in, Jennie."

 Jennie slipped in and cowered against the wall. Ted closed the door.

 "Ted's my husband." Stacy told Jennie. Jennie nodded.

 "Did he tell you he was married?"

 "Well actually . . . " Jennie glanced at Ted.

 Stacy pounced. "Why are you looking at him? What are you two hiding?"

 Jennie raised her hands. "No. No. Ted never said anything one way or another. But there was talk around the store that he was."

 "Hell, yes. He's married to me."

 "Let's cut to the chase," Ted said.

 "Jennie, are we dating?"

 "You and me? No. You offered to fix my bathtub."

 "Ah-ha." Stacy faced Ted. "She may not be your girlfriend now, but what you got planned?"

 Ted shook his head. "Listen Stacy. Jennie and I work together. We're friends. That's it. Why do you care anyway? You want a damn divorce."

 "Yes, Ted, I do want a divorce but don't make it sound like you don't. Clearly you're moving on."

 Ted shook his head. "Stacy, I'm not signing anything."

 "Listen Ted. I've come all this way. We had a good thing going but it's over."

 "You come in here and act like everything's fine. Then throw this at me. Tell me why."

 "Why?" Stacy glared. "Don't lay a guilt trip on me."

 "Guilt trip?"

 Jennie chirped. "I should leave."

 "Wait," said Ted. "I'm going to go with you, just like I promised. Stacy, you need to calm down. We'll talk when I get back."

 "No way I'm hanging around this dump. You sign these papers Ted Blaine."

 She let the sheet fall from her shoulders and jumped from the bed.

 "Stacy, cover up."

 "Eff-you," she yelled back.

 She was bent over now, digging through some luggage. Clothes flew. "Where are those damn papers?" she said to herself.

 Ted ripped the sheet from the bed and threw it over her like a tarp. She whipped around and lunged for him. "You sonofabitch." Ted grabbed her wrists.

 "Let go of me," she screamed. In the distance, through his pulsing anger, he heard Jennie's voice. "Ted, someone's at the door."

 He froze.

 Sure enough, there was a faint knock.

 The landlady no doubt.

 "Stacy, please be quiet."

 "Not until you promise."

 "Promise what?"

 "To sign the papers."

 "Okay, okay," he whispered.

 Stacy stepped aside. "Well, all right then. I'll stay quiet as a mouse. I'll give you five minutes."

 Ted shook his head, then cracked open the door.

 "Hello, Ted."

 His heart skipped a beat. Meg?

 "I can't stay mad, Ted."

 His body seized up, his jaw tightened. "This isn't a good time."

 Meg's head bobbed side to side, trying to look beyond him.

 "Don't be silly," she said, and pushed the door against him, throwing him off balance.

 The first person Meg seemed to notice was Jennie, standing by the wall. Meg smiled. "Oh, you have company."

 Ted jumped in front of his sister, trying to block any further view. "Yes. Listen, I'll call you later. We'll go out to dinner."

 "Dinner? Well, sure, but "

 Ted's maneuvering wasn't enough.

 "What the "

 "Hello, Meg," said Stacy.

 His sister's face transformed, got hard and pale like set concrete.

 Stacy looked Meg up and down. "What? Never seen a naked woman before? No, I suppose not."

 "Ted, what's going on here?" Meg said. Stacy grinned. "We're having a threesome. Wanna join us?"

 Ted shook his head. "Stacy, shut up."

 Crimson, Jennie said, "I'm not involved with any of this. I just work with Ted. He offered to do some work at my house. I came to pick him up."

 Meg turned to Ted. "Ted, how can you expect this poor girl to stand here and be a witness to this . . . nakedness. My Lord."

 "You're right, Meg." Ted said to his sister. "Go home, and I'll go with Jennie to her house. Stacy will stay here."

 Stacy gave Ted a little cat smile.

 "Aren't you forgetting something?"

 Divorce papers! Now wouldn't be the time or place. Not with Meg hovering, not with her grand plans of living together. He corralled both Jennie and Meg toward the door. "I'll meet you two downstairs. I need a couple of minutes with Stacy."

 Suddenly, Meg became immovable. She turned toward Stacy. "I know why you're here."

 Stacy stepped back.

 Meg looked at her brother. "She wants a divorce, doesn't she?"

 Ted's glance ran between the two women. How did Meg know?

 "Ha! I knew it." Meg pointed her finger. "Conniving little bitch."

 Stacy reached for a towel. "I don't have to listen to this."

 Meg laughed. "A little late for covering up, isn't it?"

 "Ted, get your loser sister out of here."

 "Meg, how do you know Stacy wants a divorce?"

 Meg glared at Stacy. "You tell him."

 Stacy folded her arms.

 "Coward." Meg turned to Ted. "You know why she's naked? Never wears clothes. She's a stripper. Venus Luv. Making a small fortune. Found her on the net. She's got a website."

 "What?"

 "Tracked her down."

 "Why?"

 "Ted, if you weren't going to get a divorce, maybe she would. Now don't get mad, but I emailed her."

 "You what?"

 "I told her you were sick and needed a lot of treatments, expensive treatments, that she'd have to pay for. A wifely duty."

 Ted dropped to the bed. "Stacy, is that why you . . . me?"

 Stacy shrugged. "I'm an angel of mercy."

 Ted snorted. Pity sex. What a joke, not Stacy, but him. "Anyone got a pen?"

 Ten minutes later, Meg and Stacy were gone. Jennie was waiting in the car.

 Ted slipped into the front seat. "Sorry you had to see that."

 Jennie smiled. "Ted, I would have crawled over hot coals to get that darn drain fixed."

 Ted laughed. Jennie was still liquid sunshine. Clipping on the seatbelt, he then thought of his sister. He'd get the chewy cookies next time.

 

 The License Plate

 

 The day had begun with Barbra, the cat, jumping on the dresser in her normal disruption; a swat here, a swat there, first nudging, then bunting, tubes of lipsticks over the edge and onto the floor with a clatter. Jessie opened her eyes, rolled onto her back and stretched before turning to look at her husband, shirtless and diagonal on the bed, like the way he cut his sandwiches.

 He was a handsome man, a sleeping prince. How else could she describe him with his solid, symmetrical good looks? What was it about men in general, and David specifically? The muscle mass, she assumed, and its taut closeness to the skin. She watched his diaphragm rise and fall. It was as if his body had been chiseled from the smoothest marble and lovingly rubbed and buffed by a fine renaissance artist into timeless perfection. His wide shoulders curved gently, but with certainty, into biceps that even at rest, swelled. So unlike her own body which was altogether too fluid and malleable by hormones, water retention, and, as she now understood, the tentativeness of her own convictions.

 Jessie's marriage bellied-up that morning, quite unexpectedly. Well, bellied- up may be an exaggeration since it didn't really turn over like some white-stomached whale that is rolled back into the sea after it jumps shore and dies for no apparent reason. Quick-sanded would be a better expression since the end of her marriage was quiet and irrevocable; a gravitational pull downwards, where a thick blanket of unbreatheable space engulfed her, and her marriage, into some vague but certain vortex until she, and it, were no more.

 It happened on a Sunday, their assigned day to relax and read the newspaper to one another. Movie reviews, stock quotes, and aloud ponderings of seven-letter words for inclement weather drizzle, thunder. Interspersed among these, was their ongoing discussion of what color to paint the hallway. After six months they still couldn't decide. What impression did they want to project? Hallways, David had reiterated (and Jessie had agreed), were signature rooms, statements of character, like the front door, which had taken a year and a half to settle on--black raspberry, not quite red, not quite purple, deepened with a hint of dark blue undertone.

 Jessie tried to recollect what he had first said that morning. Something mundane she was certain, some comments about the weather most likely. Was it raining? Was it supposed to rain. Did it rain last night? At which time point she had probably turned the kitchen curtain aside and looked out. But the sun was shining. It was so bright, her eyes ached. That much she remembered, positively, for sure.

 Jessie thought of leaning over and running her mouth across his chest, tasting his salt with her tongue. But David, unlike any other man she had ever known, didn't like anything that remotely suggested sex before either of them hadn't properly showered and brushed their teeth. The quick roll would have to be postponed until after breakfast or perhaps snuck in before the eggs were scrambled.

 She denied herself and her appetite for the moment, rolled from the bed, plucked some clothes from the dresser, and headed for the spare bedroom.

 They had set up the extra space as an exercise room. A Nordic track and stepper took up opposite corners. Double green mats lay in the center with three sets of hand weights at their side. Jessie closed the door tight to lessen the sound of the creaky hardwood floor. She then stripped off her nightshirt, straightened the towel she had left several days earlier, and positioned herself for twenty minutes of reps.

 Lying naked on the floor, she ran her hand across her stomach. How flat and tidy her insides became with the help of gravity. She looked from the lower edges of her eyes and saw, between the slight mounds and undefined peaks of her breasts, an unencumbered view to her toes. She bent her knees, crossed her arms and began with crunches.

 At first it was easy, good form, even breaths, but after one-hundred and fifty, the burn settled in and slowly her form dissolved. She pushed forward for another twenty-five. Each curl slowly disintegrated, too high, too low. Her shallow breaths raced. Ten more, she tried, but quit at six. She stretched out and felt her heart pounding. Sweat dripped from her underarms. She rolled over, propped herself on her side, and began scissor-leg lifts.

 Exercising had been an unnatural state for Jessie. Unnatural, boring, and time consuming, that was, until she met David, who was an avid runner. Three years later, she now cross-trained with sixty mile bike rides, two mile jogs and, whenever she had a few extra moments, a hodgepodge of aerobic and muscle defining exercises. What she looked forward to the most, however, was when her workout ended, when her body gave up.

 She rolled to the other side and began again. Her forehead was sopping; drips fell onto the terrycloth towel. She was going to push herself today since she had cheesecake at work on Friday. She had to keep reminding herself to align her back and not lean forward. Between each lift, she thought specifically about her body position and made minor adjustments.

 Once finished, she steadied her breathing and slowly recovered. Soon, she felt invigorated and wiped the sweat that now covered her body. As her hands passed over her breasts, the tissue changed. Suddenly she had a naughty thought.

 She stopped for a moment and listened quietly for David. She then imagined him coming to watch. How silly to be concerned or guilty. But she was a married woman, and it was not something she needed to resort to. Laying quietly, she breathed deeply, and thought of the ramifications. Would she tell him at breakfast? Present it as a hypothetical? "Honey, what if your wife pleasured herself while you slept?"

 Jessie smiled at his possible reaction. He'd crook his head to the side, take a sip of coffee and ask, "Pleasured? Do you mean jerked off?" And a conversation would follow not about the act, but what to call the act, "jerked off" being the point of departure; whereupon the question would arise if a woman could, by nature, jerk off. Jessie thought about this for a moment semantics could be prickly.

 She decided to forego any immediate pleasure, and took a steaming ten-minute shower followed by a twenty-second cold rinse to close her pores. She rubbed herself dry, then erased the fog from the full length mirror with the damp towel. Standing back, she appraised her body.

 David and she did have secrets. Did he have any idea that after she ate, her waist expanded two inches? Did he ever notice the occasional, corkscrew hair that she missed while shaving? Quirky habits lurked below the surface, awaiting their turn to reveal themselves. Jessie smiled and thought of the marriage vow . . . for better or worse.

 Running her fingers through her shoulder-length hair, she blew the wetness dry. She bent over, shook her head, and spritzed a light volume-enhancing spray near the roots of her hair. Once upright, she perfumed her brush and raked it along the underside of her hair near the nape of her neck.

 David liked her natural looks, but natural was deceptive. The blond highlights in her light brown hair needed six-week touch-up, and her doe-like blue eyes, large and almond shaped, were more the by-product of smokey eye shadow and midnight liner, than anything she could have possibly been born with.

 She pulled on a pair of faded jeans and tucked in a white, oversized, button-down shirt. The soft cotton felt comforting against her skin, and the clean smell cleared her mind momentarily of the never-ending rehash of her imperfections.

 She padded down the stairs in her socks, careful not to slip on the gleaming, honey- colored steps.

 They had decided to forego the honeymoon (a Winnebago rental and cross-country trip), to have all the wall-to-wall carpeting removed and the hardwood floors refinished. While she had always dreamed of traveling light with someone she loved and a 35 millimeter camera, David had convinced her otherwise, saying that floors, like walls, were canvasses, the basic building blocks for designing and defining a living space that went beyond the visual; a presence that was both seductive and strong, like white, straight teeth. Jessie didn't argue the point. How could she? The beauty of the floors provided, not only tangible pleasure, but a solid foundation from which to build-- the perfect metaphor of their marriage.

 Jessie quietly opened the front door, collected the newspaper, and continued into the kitchen. She then poured herself a large glass of water, set the table, and settled into her Sunday morning ritual.

 David didn't cook, nor did he having much interest in cooking. That was her realm. So before breakfast, and while she waited for him, she reviewed the weekly food ads, checked the sales, and planned their evening meals.

 Her eyes darted up and down the pages and in no time she had a list: Caesar salad, grilled salmon, pasta with broccoli; She then added jambalaya with a question mark. (Shrimp and sausage were on sale, but she had been avoiding any dish with okra.) Underneath, she wrote Chinese take-out.

 As she cut out the coupons, he stirred. Footsteps sounded overhead, a door opened, water rumbled through the pipes. She looked at the clock. He'd be getting ready for his fifteen-minute run. She got up, cut two oranges in half, and got out the plastic juicer. His hurried steps lumbered down the stairs. She turned.

 He wore a Notre Dame T-shirt and a pair of gray sweats. His hair was brushed back and slightly wet. She imagined that he had thrown water on his face after he had brushed his teeth, and with his hands still wet, had run them through his hair. As she squeezed the oranges, he sidled up behind her, put his arms around her waist, and kissed the nape of her neck.

 "Looks good, smells good," he said.

 "The juice?"

 His hand cupped her breast and a finger reached into the vee of her shirt. "Yeah, that too."

 She turned to kiss him, but he stepped back.

 "Gotta run. How's the weather?"

 She reached out and pulled the curtain aside. The sunshine was blinding. It was a beautiful, uncomplicated day.

 He smiled boyishly with a wink and a slight grin. She handed him the small glass of juice. He swallowed it in two quick gulps, and before she could ask him what he wanted in his omelet, the door slammed.

 She opened the refrigerator door and wondered what she should surprise him with. An omelet of course, but should she add capers, onions? Or just stick with the spinach, portobelloes, and baby swiss. She pulled it all out along with the eggs, butter, and cream. Sundays were cholesterol days.

 By the time David returned, she had the ingredients chosen and the table set.

 He barreled into the kitchen from the back door, and while she set up the coffee, he did some cool-down stretches.

 "Good run?"

 "Great."

 David had several two-mile courses measured out. "Which route did you take?"

 "Sheridan."

 He stretched into a lunge position and bounced on one knee. "You're not going to believe what I saw."

 Jessie looked into his face. He had barely broken a sweat. His dark brown eyes wrapped around her heart.

 "Down in the Denny's parking lot there was this couple getting out of their van. Florida plates, bumper stickers up the wazoo. Niagara Falls, Grand Canyon . . . Get the picture?"

 She nodded, and saw in her mind's eye two retirees, who argued about directions and cuddled at night.

 "Anyway, get this, their license plate said Bud & Jo." And he roared.

 Jessie smiled.

 He reached over and grabbed a piece of cheese. "Man, is that tacky or what!"

 It was tacky, she supposed, but an endearing tacky. "Sounds cute," she said.

 "Cute? Are you serious?"

 She sliced the mushrooms. "Well, I don't see the harm in it. I mean "

 "Jess, why would two people advertise their relationship like that. What's the point, except to look like idiots."

 Jessie shrugged her shoulders as she whisked the eggs. "Were they an older couple?"

 "Old enough to know better."

 Jessie put down the fork and turned to him with feigned concern. "Does that mean I should forget about monogrammed towels for Christmas?"

 He leaned up against the counter, and thought for a moment. "Initials are okay, I suppose, if they're done in private."

 She wanted to ask him if he were serious, but instead she reached for his arm and drew him close. "Private? Like here?" And she kissed his soft, wet lips.

 He stiffened and pulled away. "Listen, got to take a shower. Then maybe we can do it."

 Jessie reeled back, feeling her smile fade. "Excuse me?"

 "Come on, Jess, I'm all sweaty. Can't you hold off a few minutes?"

 "I can hold off a lot longer than that."

 His eyebrows rose, then his face tightened. "Fine," he said and he walked from the room.

 Jessie grabbed onto the counter to steady herself. What had just happened? Not a fight or an argument, but something more disturbing, a foundational shift, a hair-line crack in fine bone china.

 It was her own voice saying, for once, what she truly knew. They would never rent a Winnebago, or go on a cross-country trip, or have their names imprinted on a license plate.

 Barbra, as though sensing her distress, rubbed against her leg and purred softly.

 

 Shadow Man

 

 What can you glean from a photograph of strangers? How close do they sit, where do they look? And their hands, do they reach out, or hang down uselessly, like unwanted appendages? The shutter clicks in a millisecond and suddenly time stops, memorializing a scene with subtleties not noticed in real time when the picture was taken. However, does the image portray truth or falsehood? Perhaps, like life, it's in the interpretation. There's the photograph and the person who looks at it.

 But this isn't a photograph of strangers, unknown, unknowable. The snapshot is of my mother, two sisters and me taken one sunny summer day on the back porch of the cottage. The lake, voluminous and blue, spans behind us. We are all smiling, not huddled together as one might expect for a grown woman and her three young daughters.

 I'm leaning along the railing with my arms crossed. I have the vague recollection that I was called up from the beach. I have a plaid bathing suit on with shorts added. My tanned face makes my eyes stand out as well as my teeth. I appear healthy, happy but not a part of the family. I'm behind the others, off to the side, a girl of twelve with other things on her mind most likely Billie Richard's high school jacket and who he favored for the moment. That summer it was always thoughts of Billie and how to draw his attention away from the other girls.

 Michelle is perched on the edge of the glider, next to mother. Her smile is more of a grimace, forced, uncompromising. Her eyes, unreadable, stare directly into the camera. Her arms run the length of her torso and her hands grip the davenport, ready for catapulting. She looks ready to sprint the moment the snapshot is clicked. She wears yellow shorts and a yellow tank top. Her nubby shoulders are about to split through her skin.

 Amy, the youngest, is a toddler. Unlike Michelle, she has settled deep into a corner of the davenport. Could this have been her choice, or was she plopped down for the picture? In the tight grasp of her small knuckles is a sucker. Her feet stick out over the cushion. Her eyes are big and round and her mouth is open. She may be laughing or about to take a lick. She is painfully innocent, oblivious to the drama of the moment.

 Finally, there's mother, a woman in her prime of fullness, fertility, with luminous eyes and reddened lips. She sits erect and proud in a deep-V buttoned dress with a skinny patent leather belt; her knees are together and slightly turned toward the side, the appropriate way for a lady to sit. Her hair is combed, raked into some type of knob at the nape of her neck. A loose strand hangs down along one side of her face. Her smile is tight, showing no teeth; her industrious fingers are laced, locked uncharacteristically together, on her lap. For a brief moment, she is given a reprieve nothing to wipe clean, no hair to comb. I draw the picture closer and scan her more carefully. Were there any signs of impending doom? Perhaps an accusing glance, a fleeting downward turn of the lips? But I see nothing of the sort. And I wonder . . .

 What's the picture-taker doing? Deep within our eyes is a mirrored image of him. Would digital technology be able to zoom into our pupils and see the man, our father, who stands in front of us? Is he calm, affable? Giving directions, "Say cheese", "Put your hands down"? Or is he in a rush, with bags packed and the engine running? How can such critical moments in life go unnoticed and, therefore, unremembered?

 Among the three children, I'm considered the lucky one since my memory of him is clearer than theirs. Where I can describe a wholeness, they are left with parts. But as the years passed, even my recollections have lost definition, and I can only recall or choose to recall the most rudimentary of details he smoked unfiltered cigarettes, was over six feet and smelled of aftershave. And yes, as I'm reminded, he took pictures . . .

 Or at least the one I'm holding now, received less than twenty-four hours ago by registered mail with a short note asking to meet with his daughters for a casual lunch at a hotel restaurant, the perfect venue for extinct lounge lizards and deadbeat dads of thirty years gone by. I'll have to commend him for such an appropriate spot to reacquaint.

 Along the white border of the photo is a stamped date, 8-72. The summer before seventh grade, before the move, before the change of schools, before the breakdowns and hysterias, the summer before I became fatherless. On the back, there's writing that appears fresh with clean, even strokes in black ballpoint: When I last saw you. And I wonder, to whom is he referring? Me or the group of us. It must be me since the letter was addressed to me, the only one of his daughters who remains unmarried, the one who continues to this day to carry his name, like a saved, useless paperclip in a junk drawer.

 I slide the snapshot into my purse pocket and take a fleeting look at myself in the vestibule mirror. Will he recognize me? See something vaguely redundant in how I carry myself or the way I hold my fork? And will these remnants remind him of himself or of his wife, the one he left behind on a beautiful summer day? I cringe knowing whatever we may have in common, our DNA will forever remain an immutable denominator. Still, whatever our shared history is, an even more critical question arises: What shall I call him? Pops?

 On the drive to the hotel, I fidget. There's a certain amount of guilt brewing. I've said nothing to my sisters, Michelle, who thinks he's a god, Amy, who craves any detail of him. I tell myself, I'm riding shotgun, preventing an emotional ambush. What does he want anyway? Money, or better yet . . . a kidney? That would be laughable. Of course, I'd be tested with the hope of being a perfect match, only to say "Sorry, Pops, no can do."

 Still, I feel uneasy about the subterfuge, my firm decision to go it alone. Do I want him for myself, like the child I was, the child who hoarded dessert? In a houseful of women with no intervening male presence, I was the selfish one, the controlling one, the one who always got what she wanted. My mother gave me the power after hers was battered and bruised by unanswered prayers and straight vodka. Or perhaps I remain the most discrete, the daughter who, when putting Mother to bed, was privy to secrets no child needed to know. Whatever the reason, my decision is firm.

 As I park the car, I wonder if he's watching, staring out from a table near the window or peeping behind a pulled blind in a second-story room. Are his eyes darting across the parking lot, sizing up groups of women who empty from cars? Deep in his chest, is his heart beating like a racehorse, about to burst from running too long? I hope so. And if he, before our meeting, were to have a heart attack secondary to keen anticipation and fathomless guilt . . . perhaps then there'd be a modicum of forgiveness.

 Sharp sunlight glares off car windows assaulting my brain with an ache that is more jarring than painful, a momentary freeze. Advancing, I turn my eyes downward and follow the tips of my shoes. The concrete, its unyielding hardness, is bleak, untenable. Can I do this? What choice do I have? Our meeting is inevitable, like water off a falls. While the past can't be redefined or reconfigured, there are salient points to be made he must stand accused, he must take responsibility. Not so much for my sake or even my sisters, but for my mother whose life imploded. Suddenly, she was neither widowed nor divorced, but simply husbandless, a vague limbo-like status where future prospects were limited to cheating husbands and mamas' boys who smelled distinctly of mothballs; and where holidays, birthdays, anniversaries began with midmorning Bloody Marys and the interminable (and ultimately senseless) waiting for word by way of a card or letter or collect phone call.

 The hotel lobby is cool and dark. A lingering scent of damp air mingles with a stale citrous smell. Either the carpets were recently cleaned or the conditioning is poorly vented. For a moment, I imagine subatomic torpedo-like particles floating in the air Legionnaire spores, millions of them. Regardless, I continue onward.

 Monstrous silk-flower arrangements not found in nature, are placed strategically in seating areas and against mirrored-walls. The carpet has swirls that loop and spiral, making my eyes roll and my stomach feel queasy. As my pupils adjust, widen like a cat's, I become vigilant to movement and sweep a glance across the reception area. It's critical that I miss no one who may change his mind and skulk away.

 A suited, balding man sits with extended legs in a plush chair. He is alone and reading the newspaper. Over the years, I've often wondered about men of a certain age, men who might be my father. On busses, in restaurants, across crowded rooms, I've fantasized if he, out of desperate curiosity, has followed me. But this man remains absorbed in the sports pages and gives no indication of interest or expectancy.

 To the left, near a corridor entryway, there's a sign on a tripod, TEA ROOM, with an arrow. As I stride closer, the sound of clinking dishes becomes clear. Stepping over the threshold, I take a deep breath. It's showtime.

 In a dim vestibule, a dark wooden lectern stands with a posting Please wait to be seated. The restaurant proper is a sharp turn to the right beyond an unlit coat check area. According to my watch, I'm fifteen minutes late, fashionably late in most circles, but given the circumstances, generously on time. On a green chalk board, the day's specials are listed. Perhaps, I'll order the lobster. It's the most expensive time to pay up.

 A tall young woman in a crisp white blouse, black slacks, breezes out from the interior. "Welcome to the Tea Room. Table for one?"

 "Actually, I meeting someone."

 "The name?" she asks swaying behind the podium.

 Name? Do I need to say his name out loud? It seems it should be kept buried where it's been for thirty years, a crumbling bone.

 The woman awaits my answer with a disinterested, weak smile. "John," I say feebly, then add, "John Roberts."

 A ledger with a list of handwritten names rests on the wood top. She begins to run her finger down the page. I watch carefully, waiting for her glance to stop and get snagged. At the end, she looks up. "Your party's not here yet."

 I want to rip the book away from her to check myself. Certainly, he wouldn't stand me up. Would he? How many times in one lifetime can you be sucker-punched by your father?

 She pulls a pen from her pocket. "I'll jot his name down and show him in as soon as he arrives. Roberts, right?"

 She sounds confident of this eventuality.

 "Yes," I say.

 Scribbling his name in the margin, she asks, "Would you like to be seated or wait at the bar?"

 Drink? I could use a stiff one. "Seated."

 Grabbing two leather-bound menus from a compartment below, she says, "This way, please."

 I'm settled at a table for two near the window. It would be a pleasant spot if, instead of a parking lot, there were an ocean view. Across the expanse of cars is the highway, and beyond that, the airport. The sky is blue but interrupted. Circling planes leave streams of gray smoke. There is no greenery beyond the glass. It's all a rushed jumble of concrete and metal and sharp edges that, if I look at long enough, will give me a migraine. I open the menu for no other reason than to appear busy. Still, I remain watchful.

 A large group takes up several tables arranged end to end. They are talking insurance business, telling war stories of car accidents that are anecdotally amusing. The women in the group are quiet. It's the men who laugh and vie for center stage. Along the perimeter, there appears to be a couple with a college boy in tow. No one speaks. Possibly the empty-nest syndrome is in full swing. Two men (one younger than me, the other older) sit at the bar. A pert young waitress flits across the rug and heads in my direction.

 "Hi," she says with a bright smile, "I'm Misty. I'll be your server today." Her glance falls to the other menu. "Would you like a drink while you wait?"

 A triple shot of vodka would be my choice at home, but here, in the company of strangers, I say, "A Manhattan on the rocks, please."

 "Okey-dokey," she says, and scurries off.

 I look at my watch. In five minutes I'll finish the drink then leave. I console myself knowing I have his return address in northern Vermont. From my purse I pull out a pen and appointment book, and flip to a clean page.

 Misty returns and sets my drink down on a cocktail napkin. "Compliments from the gentleman at the bar," she says.

 My eyes rivet to the area, expecting a vaguely familiar stranger, tall and smiling. But there's only the same two men. I gaze toward the entrance. Had he left, run off, too afraid, embarrassed to finally meet me? I reach for the waitress's arm, "What gentleman?"

 "The one on the left," she says and hurries away.

 The one on the left is the younger man. He's sitting toward the end of the bar, facing sideways, talking to the older man who's at the very end. When the waitress approaches him, words are exchanged. He then turns in my direction and gives me a wide smile.

 He's not unattractive, a salesman-type, suited, short hair, but a bit too beefy for my taste. I suddenly worry if I might know him. Was he one of my indiscretions? There had been some along the way, when I was pathetically desperate for male attention. I return to the blank sheet of paper. Between guzzles, I begin to write a letter , Hello, bastard child here--

 Without warning, the table rattles. I look up. The salesman-type is sliding into the chair across from me. "Hey, doll."

 Instinctively, I reach for my purse and rear back. "Do I know you?"

 "Tommy," he says.

 I'm suspicious of adult men who have diminutive names or wear their shirts untucked, beach bums. His eyes are very blue and very bloodshot. He could be from the old grove, perhaps somebody's brother or cousin.

 "I'm sorry. Have we met?"

 "Yes. "

 "Where?"

 "Right here."

 "You must be mistaken. I've never been here before. "

 He leans over, encroaching, smelling of a brewery. "Cute act. Listen, I'm in Room 301, what's your price?"

 I'm lightheaded, overheated, and there's a limit. My hand shoots up and I whip it across his face. Crack. His head swivels to the side, then he rebounds and seizes the table. I'm certain, he's about to heave the corners up and pummel me down.

 "Tommy!" someone yells.

 Tommy hisses through clenched teeth. "Whore."

 The other man from the bar has crossed the dining room and is putting his hand across Tommy's chest. "Settle down."

 Tommy bats the arm away.

 "Listen," the older man says, "Get back to the room and get some sleep."

 Tommy releases his hands from the table, then shakes out his shoulders.

 "We still got to see the Falls," the older man says. "Here, take the keys. Go back to the room. Order a movie or something."

 Tommy grabs the keys and rises up. "Whatever," he says before weaving out the restaurant.

 "Listen," says the older man, "I'm sorry. Are you okay?"

 "Yes, I think so."

 "You'll have to forgive my son. We've been driving all night."

 "He's had too much to drink," I say.

 "Yes, you're right. Listen, how about lunch?"

 "I won't be staying."

 "It's just that he was disappointed. We were supposed to meet some family, but they never came."

 "Family?"

 "His sisters."

 We are barely two feet apart. I could easily reach out and feel his skin, follow his features with my fingertips like someone blind. But I only look.

 For a man of sixty-two, he has aged poorly. Clusters of broken spider veins spread across his pasty cheeks, unkempt hairs sprout from his ears, nose. But it's his eyes that catch my breath they are recessed and definitively gray with the tiniest flecks of green and yellow, something I now recall. "You'll have to excuse me," I say.

 Moments later, I'm boxed into the corner stall of the ladies room. I want the electricity to go out, make me invisible. I shut my eyes where there are no shadows, nothing to assault or evade me and breathe deeply, slowly. Soon, the hollowness in my stomach dissipates and a flash of clarity sparks a parallel moment is mine for the taking. Suddenly I'm awake, renewed, with the gauntlet trailing behind.

 Back in the restaurant, he remains at the end of the bar still facing the open room, apparently waiting, hoping.

 A strong magnetic pull, both intuitive and potent, yanks me forward, but it's not in his direction. In a few short steps, I'm out the door.

 Stepping off the curb, a slight breeze brushes against my skin. The distant traffic sounds like waves on the beach. In the car, I turn the key and the engine catches. Pumping up the volume, I shift into drive and drill my foot onto the pedal. With the rev of pistons, I swerve into the road. Abandonment is a returned favor.

 Suddenly the day turns glorious.

 

 

 

 A free ebook from http://manybooks.net/