The Sutras of Awakening

 

 

  

 

 Infinity (Art Koan)

 "The emptiness and aloneness of infinity."

 Infinity (above), Waterfall (on cover) and

 Complexity of Thought (last page)

 are available as prints from Artdaja.com

 

 THE SUTRAS OF AWAKENING</1>

 By David Barrett-Murrer

 There was a nun called Chiyono who had studied Zen for many years without reaching attainment. Then finally it happened and she was set free. To mark this occasion she wrote the well known poem ëNo Water No Mooní.

 It is common for many people, after reaching this first dynamic stage of awakening, to try to capture in words something of their experience. This is natural because in the empting of the mindís content one is acutely aware of the bliss, the aloneness, the emptiness, and the ultimate reality of everything.

 The truth is that there is only one cosmic Soul in the entire multi-dimensional universe. It is not your Soul or my Soul but our collective Soul, and the true nature of that Soul is aloneness. There is only one Spirit of God and the true nature of that Spirit is emptiness and bliss. There is only God and the true nature of God is the ultimate reality of everything.

 To those who actually know this, it is the cutting edge of the spiritual path.

 After the emptying of my mind came an inspiration to put into words something of that ultimate reality. It became uncompromisingly clear and effortless to produce the Sutra of Being. For me it was, and still is, the ultimate truth expressed in words.

 I wrote the Sutras of Becoming during a process of integration when many insights became clearly apparent within that pure intensity of mind. Finally the turning point came and a deeper incomprehensible understanding stripped the mind of all borrowed knowledge.

 My spiritual journey is a continuous process of exploration and integration, where there is no absolute state. Enlightenment is simply the opening of the mind to a greater unexplored reality. I do not claim to be or want to be a guru, master, teacher or even an authority on spiritual knowledge. However, I feel that there is a need to pass on what I have discovered. This personal interpretation of the spiritual path is freely given; make of it what you will.

 If you are familiar with using Zen Koans or contemplating spiritual scriptures then the Sutra statements can be used as potent meditation seeds. These seeds can be used to probe the depths of yourself, your being and the world. Each Sutra contains many levels of truth. As you advance so the Sutras reveal deeper insights into the nature of life. For the energy of manifested life is the greatest mystery known to man.

 There is also a very practical aspect to the Sutras. Each one contains an obvious and a subtle recognition for the mind to ponder on. Every recognition that is realised expands the mind in the light of awakening. This accumulative expansion of consciousness creates a greater view, which makes transcendence from the ordinary mind to the awakened mind possible. To accomplish this one needs to penetrate each Sutra by meditating on the obvious and the subtle meaning until the inner truth is revealed. Sometimes you can work on a Sutra for several days or more before the moment comes when you say ëah, thatís what it really meansí.

 The meanings of some Sutras are very obvious. When we gaze into the sky at night it is easy to see the immensity of cosmic space that surrounds us. During the day it is easy to see the sun that gives us light and heat on which life depends. We live on the surface of a small planet that orbits a very ordinary star. We inhabit physical bodies that are made of star-stuff and are the product of planetary evolution. The subtle meanings of these Sutras are that the cosmos, stars and planets are living beings much like us, only far more advanced.

 The Sutras indicate a journey from where we are now, to where we came from in the beginning.

 Are you usually aware of the cosmos that surrounds us, the sun that gives us life and the planet that we live on? This is where we begin our journey. The Sutras then move within us to briefly explore the evolution of consciousness and to probe the vast complex nature of the mind. Finally, the Sutras reach the Turning Point where the journey continues within the unknowable realm of the Source.

 For those who are unfamiliar with the spiritual path, the following three simple techniques can make a considerable difference to the understanding of these Sutras. The three techniques are: meditative reading, pondering imaginatively and persistent contemplation.

 Meditative reading

 Choose a time to read when you are rested and will not be disturbed. Read slowly and carefully to allow the ideas and concepts to be fully absorbed. It is when reading becomes a time of quiet contemplation that you have mastered the art of meditative reading.

 Pondering imaginatively

 Reading these Sutras will naturally stimulate your mind. By pondering on, and visualising, the ideas and concepts in these Sutras you gain a greater understanding that is much more than mere words can convey.

 Persistent Contemplation

 First read the Sutras a few times to get familiar with them, then chose one, or a group, to work on as a meditation. Next carry the meditation with you throughout the day, whether on the train, in the car or while having a cup of tea. When you have mastered the technique of persistent contemplation you will be amazed by the realisations that will surface almost effortlessly.

 Now you are ready to begin your journey of exploration through the following Sutras and may you all, in your own way, discover the living Spirit of Freedom.

 THE SUTRAS OF AWAKENING

 What we perceive as the objective world is a phenomenal reality of the energy world in which we actually exist and have our being. The objective world is not an illusion yet it is still a phenomenal existence. Phenomenally, as if from nothing objective existence came into being. What a wondrous mystery is Life.

 THE SUTRA OF BEING

 The body, the world and thought are transient.

 They came into being and they go out.

 But that which perceives body, world and thought

 is eternal and the true nature of every being.

 THE SUTRAS OF BECOMING

 THE COSMOS (SUTRAS 0-3)

 (0)*

 The cosmos is a vast incomprehensible LIFE-FIELD

 wherein all that is - is.

 (1)

 Our sun, within the body of its solar system,

 has evolved the planets as centres of objective activity.

 (2)

 The earth, within its sphere of activity, has evolved

 the mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms

 as stages in the planet's unfoldment.

 (3)

 Nature is the intelligent, impelling Will behind this unfoldment.

 And it is presently driving man to appropriate the next kingdom

 (in this evolutionary play) that is arrived at by the Awakened Mind.

 CONSCIOUSNESS (SUTRAS 4-10)

 (4)

 The evolution of man is the evolution of mind

 via the thinking principle

 as it is developed through the lower states.

 (5)

 Primitive states of mind are occupied with instincts.

 (6)

 Emotive states of mind are occupied with things.

 (7)

 Average states of mind are occupied with people.

 (8)

 Higher states of mind are occupied with ideas.

 (9)

 Unified states of mind are receptive to pure reason.

 (10)

 While the Awakened Mind is beyond the threshold of thought

 and no longer preoccupied with the lower human states.

 PROBING (SUTRAS 11-22)

 (11)

 In the process of awakening, the thinking principle

 is constantly fluctuating within and between the lower states.

 (12)

 Interests and concerns are the cause of these fluctuations.

 What are you interested in or concerned with:

 yourself, things, people, ideas - God?

 (13)

 Discover that each fluctuation reveals something about yourself.

 Then review your past, your memories and learn of the Way of Life.

 (14)

 When the primary field of livingness is,

 then see how even this serene state of mind can be disturbed

 and how a disturbed state of mind can become serene.

 (15)

 Cultivate a loving attitude and apply it to everyone including yourself.

 Then unify that love to include the Greater Being in Whom we all exist.*

 Finally lose yourself in the magnetic energy of Universal Love.

 (This is the Way of the Heart)

 (16)

 Knowledge of the greater view and the teaching that frees

 give structure to the possibility of a unified mind.

 As knowledge becomes wisdom this unity becomes established

 and the mind becomes unlimited.

 (This is the Way of the Mind)

 (17)

 Living in the immediacy of being in the Eternal Now

 quickens spiritual awakening.

 (This is the*Way of Life)

 (18)

 Meditate by setting aside a time each day

 to quietly sit, ponder, reflect, observe, listen and love.

 Thus are the Lulls, the Soundless Sound

 and the mystery of Intent revealed.

 (19)

 Discover the mystery of sleep and know dreamtime

 as a reality greater than physical being.

 (20)

 Discover the dynamic potency of harmlessness

 in what you think, say and do.

 (21)

 Discover the existence of etheric space

 and know that you are part of everything.

 And the sky at night is filled with light.

 Here is found the truth that objective existence

 is a phenomenal reality.

 (22)

 Remember that all anyone can do for*others is*

 to inspire them to know, to love and to just-be.

 For it is yourself that you are discovering

 and nobody can do this for you.

 KARMA (SUTRAS 23-26)

 (23)

 Since all activity is karmic

 then every thought, word and deed

 (good, bad or indifferent) returns to us.

 (24)

 If you understand this unerring law of karma

 you will acquire a natural balance

 and your self inflicted suffering will cease.

 (25)

 The full understanding is that we have free-will under karmic law.

 (26)

 Thus do we learn the balanced way of the razor's edge,

 and the mystery of invocation and evocation of energies.

 THE HARMONY OF FREEDOM (SUTRAS 27-30)

 (27)

 From natural balance the Spirit of Freedom is caught.

 (28)

 This harmony is always there

 but we are usually too preoccupied with ourselves to realise it.

 (29)

 Without the awareness of this inner harmony

 we lose our way and try to impose an external harmony

 within our preoccupations.

 (30)

 This inner harmony cannot be imposed,

 like the Spirit of Freedom - it simply is.

 THE MYSTERIES AND BEYOND (SUTRAS 31-34)

 (31)

 The mysteries expand consciousness

 by constructing a larger more comprehensive

 view of existence.

 (32)

 The greater our view the deeper the mind,

 here are found the truths of the One Life,

 evolution, man, karma, rebirth, freedom

 and the mystery of the many (in reality countless)

 Life-Fields vast and minute.

 (33)

 The Mysteries bridge the abyss in our understanding

 between the known and the unknown;

 until the Mysteries are finally lost in the unknowable.

 (34)

 Understanding brings you to a point,

 beyond that there is no you

 there is only Life (your divine energy).

 THE UNIVERSAL FRIEND (SUTRAS 35-38)

 (35)

 The nature of the Questing Soul is cosmic

 and through man it will spiritualise humanity

 and the sub-human evolutions.

 (36)

 Holistic guidance is a principle in life.

 It is the energy of inspiration lovingly applied.

 This energy does not come from us but through us.

 We only add, from our understanding great or small,

 the influence to heal.

 (37)

 Holistic guidance comes from the intensity of the Turning Point.

 Which means that the central focus of one's being is Questing Life

 and all else (family, friends, work, etc.) is secondary.

 (38)

 The three aspects of Questing Life are:

 The Way of the Heart (love);

 The Way of the Mind (wisdom);

 The Way of Life in the Eternal Now

 (that is living in the immediacy of being).

 THE TURNING POINT (SUTRAS 39-43)

 Re-polarisation

 (39) The Sutra of Being

 The body, the world and thought are transient.

 They came into being and they go out.

 But that which perceives body, world and thought

 is eternal and the true nature of every being.

 (40) The Key

 That which perceives is the Eye of the Divine Self

 Whose emanations create the primary field of livingness

 and manifest the evolving activity within that field.

 (41) Catching the Edge

 In the immediacy of perceiving, knowing, feeling and being,

 discover the Edge and know the technique of the Masters.

 Ever new is the energy of Life.

 (42) The Silent Probe

 By seeing the essence,

 that is a movement and a rest,

 does the seamless fluctuations harmonise.

 Monadic Fire is the destroyer of self and worlds.

 Indescribable is the freedom of Monadic Consciousness.

 (43) Reaching the Source

 One cannot reach the Source.

 There is no technique.

 The Source simply reveals itself,

 then nothing remains but the Source.

 Returning is as much of a mystery

 as is the revealing of the Source.

 The mind cannot comprehend these mysteries.

 

 Copyright © DBM Feb 1998-2010. All rights reserved.

 Artdaja Publications 2010

 Visit our website at:

 Http://artdaja.com

 Http://artdaja.com/dajanews.html

 http://www.saatchi-gallery.co.uk/yourgallery/artist_profile//118366.html

 If you enjoyed this ebook then check out our site as new pictures,

 articles, free ebooks and games are added on a regular basis.

 Artdaja.com is now on Facebook so please follow us there.

 http://www.facebook.com/pages/httpartdajacom/419172250625

 [< Insert pic: Complexity of Thought >]

 Complexity of Thought (Art Koan)

 "The eye of the mind is the Eye of God.

 The complexity of thought is the product of man."

 

 

 A free ebook from http://manybooks.net/