The Rapture and Israel

 

 

  

 

 THE RAPTURE AND ISRAEL

 By William West

 THE PREMILLENNIALISTS VIEW OF CHRIST

 ISRAEL RESTORED

 THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON

 THE PREMILLENNIAL THOUSAND-YEARS

 THE THRONE OF DAVID

 DANIEL'S 70 WEEKS AND THE "GAP"

 THE "ANTICHRIST" AND "MAN OF SIN"

 THE FIRST RESURRECTION AND THE SECOND DEATH

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 * Chapter 1: Premillennialists beliefs, a multitude of divisions and confusions

 * Chapter 2: The nature of Christ.

 The nature of Christ before He became flesh

 (1) Jesus Christ, the God who made all things and us

 * Chapter 3: Christ as reviled in the Old Testament

 * Chapter 4: Christ as reviled in the New Testament

 Jesus in the New Testament

 Jesus as reviled in John's gospel. The person who came from God and returned to God

 Jesus as reviled in Hebrews

 * Chapter 5: Jesus Christ, the God who became a man

 The nature of Christ while He was flesh and dwelled among us [John 1:14]

 (1) Jesus Christ, the God who became a man

 (2) Jesus Christ, the God who died my death for my sin

 The nature of Christ now and for all eternity

 (1) Jesus Christ, the God who lives

 (2) Jesus in John's Gospel: Came from Heaven, sent by God, will return to God

 * Chapter 6: The nature of mankind

 (1) The nature of mankind from creation to the resurrection

 The nature of mankind before the first sin

 The nature of mankind after Adam's sin

 From birth to death

 From death to the resurrection

 (2) The nature of mankind for all eternity after the resurrection

 * Chapter 7: Was the death and resurrection of Christ foreknown by God?

 * Chapter 8: Kingdom of Heaven or kingdom of God?

 * Chapter 9: Was the church planned by God or just an afterthought?

 If both God and Christ had not failed

 * Chapter 10: Back to the temple made with hands

 From the blood of Christ back to the blood of animals

 From Christ our High Priest back to the Old Testament priesthood

 From the substance back to the shadow

 From the better New Covenant back to the Old Covenant

 From that which makes alive back to that which kills

 From free back to bondage

 * Chapter 11: Old Testament passages used by Millennialists to teach Christ would set up a kingdom and rule the world from Jerusalem

 * Chapter 12: New Testament passages used by Millennialists

 (1) Matthew 24 The destruction of Israel, this * Chapter is regarded by many Millennialists as being their strongest proof of the Millennium.

 Preterist Eschatology - Realized Eschatology - The A. D. 70 Doctrine

 The day of the Lord

 On the day of the Lord - The second coming of Christ

 On the day of the Lord - The resurrection and judgment of the righteous

 On the day of the Lord - The resurrection and judgment of the wicked

 On the day of the Lord - The final judgment

 On the day of the Lord - The total destruction of the earth and the heavens which were made from nothing and will return to nothing

 On the day of the Lord - The total destruction of the lost

 On the day of the Lord - The second death

 On the day of the Lord - Death will be abolished

 On the day of the Lord - The saved forever with the Lord

 On the day of the Lord - The kingdom will be delivered up to God

 On the day of the Lord - Christ will bring the lawless one to an end by the appearance of His coming

 On the day of the Lord - "Wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God"

 (2) 1 Thessalonians 4:17, Will the second coming of Christ be Premillennial? Will there be an invisible return of Christ?

 (3) Revelation 20, The Thousand years

 (4) Other New Testament passages used by Millennialists. The first resurrection and the second death. Is there one resurrection, or two, or more then two resurrections?

 * Chapter 13: The "last days" passages

 * Chapter 14: What is the Great Tribulation?

 * Chapter 15: What is Armageddon?

 * Chapter 16: Who is John's "Antichrist"? Who is Paul's "man of sin"?

 * Chapter 17: The Premillennial views of "Hell"

 * Chapter 18: Well-known Millennium predictions that failed

 * Chapter 19: The throne of David

 (1) The Jewish earthly kingdom of Israel

 (2) The Millennium earthly kingdom of Israel

 * Chapter 20: Is the Gospel "The power of God to salvation"?

 * Chapter 21: Israel, is it still God's chosen people?

 The two-fold promise

 The land promise

 The seed promise

 God's Israel of today

 * Chapter 22: The Thirteenth Tribe

 Summary: The Millennium was not known about by God, Daniel or any others of the Old Testament prophets

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 FOREWORD

 WHAT IS PREMILLENNIAL BELIEFS?

 For the most part the Premillennialists beliefs are a revival of the beliefs of the Jews in the time of Christ. Israel was looking for an earthly king who would drive Rome out, conquer other nations, and restore the Kingdom as it was in the time of David. Premillennialists say this is what Christ came to do but that God did not foresee the Jews rejecting and killing Christ, but because they did, the restoring of the kingdom was put off and the church age is an unforeseen substitute, which begins at the death of Christ and will last only unto He comes back, then the unforeseen church age (the "gap") will end, Israel and the Law of the Old Testament will be restored. Christ, who most Millennialists believe to be a created being and did not exist before His birth, will literally sit on the throne of David in Jerusalem and rule the world. Premillennialists make God and Christ to have failed in their plan to setup the kingdom of Heaven because of the rejection of Christ by the Jews; and His death, resurrection, or the "church age" which they call the gap was not foreseen by God. To this basis teaching, different Millennialists add a seven-year rapture, some before the Millennium and some after it, and many other contradictory variations of beliefs. In the Millennium Satan will be bound for a thousand years, but will be loosed for a "little season." He and his angels will make war on Christ in Jerusalem and all but overcome Him (the battle of Armageddon), but God will save Him. Satan, his angels, and the lost will come to their end in Gehenna just south of Jerusalem, which will have been restored. Most believe Christ and the saved will live forever on this earth and no person will ever go to Heaven. IN BRIEF, THE PREMILLENNIALISTS BELIEF IS A COMPLETE REWRITE OF THE BIBLE.

 As David Brown puts it, "Premillennialism is no barren speculation--useless though true, or innocuous though false. It is a school of Scripture interpretation; it impinges upon and affects some of the most commanding points of the Christian faith; and when suffered to work its unimpeded way, it stops not till it has pervaded with its own genius the entire system of one's theology, and the whole tone of spiritual character, constructing, I had almost said, a world of its own; so that, holding the same faith, and cherishing the same fundamental hopes as other Christen, he yet sees things through a medium of his own, and finds everything instinct with the life which this doctrine has generated within him" Page 8, and "That the fleshly and sublunary state is not to terminated with the second coming of Christ, but to be then set up in a new form; when with His glorified saints, the Redeemer will reign in person on the throne of David at Jerusalem for a thousand years, over a world of men yet in the flesh, eating and drinking, planting and building, marrying and giving in marriage, under this mysterious way." Christ's Second Coming: Will It Be Premillennial, Page 6, T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh, 1858.

 The Messiah Israel looked for was a person who would restore Israel as a nation and make them supreme to all other nations as it was in the time of David. In the restored nation they looked for, there would have been birth, life and death for all just as there was in the time of David. No one thought they would have eternal life. It was not something they looked for. Eternal life was something new to the teaching of Christ.

 Israel looked for a messiah that was just as David was, a man that would live and die just as David did, a person that was just a human as all other persons were. Not a Messiah that would be God. The belief of Millennialists is that Christ was going to set up the earthly kingdom of Israel and that the death and resurrection of Christ were not in the plan of God. This view is basic to all the versions of the Millennium. Without it the Millennium would be totally destroyed. With it, salvation through the death and resurrection of Christ is totally destroyed. There is no way both can be true. Many versions of Premillennial doctrines destroys life after death for all and replaces it with only a lifetime on this earth with no evil, but one that still has death at the end of this lifetime. At the end of the life of the Messiah the Jews looked for no one would have been saved from the wages of sin, death, for the Jews would not have crucified Christ and He would hot have shed His blood to give us life in place of death. No one, Jew or Gentile, would ever have eternal life without the death of Christ. There would be no life after death [1 Corinthians 15:13-19].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 1

 Premillennial beliefs, a multitude of divisions and confusions

 After the Judgment where will we spend eternity?

 When I begin to research for this book, I was surprised and shocked to learn how many there are who say they believe the Bible but do not believe in the deity and the preexistence of Christ, but believe that He did not existence before His birth. Even more surprised to learn that many believe that the sacrifice of Christ will be put aside and go back to the Old Testament sacrifices of animal; back from the substance to the shadow [Hebrews 8:5ff; 10:1-24]; and that the New Covenant is just an afterthought. Satan is doing his work well.

 But, I have been just as surprised at how many there are that say they are Christians, members of the church Christ give His life for that does not know that this kind of teaching is going on in the religious world, often even in the congregation they attend, and they do not seem to care. When I first became a Christian in the fifty, most Christians know the Bible and would do all they could to teach any person that was in err; now it often does not seem to be so.

 PREMILLENNIAL DOCTRINE IS A SYSTEM(S) OF INTERPRETATION, WHICH INVOLVES MEANING AND SIGNIFICANCE OF THE WHOLE BIBLE, AND DETERMINES THE PRESENT PURPOSE OF GOD. Premillennial beliefs make God and Christ to have failed in their plan to setup the kingdom because of the rejection of Christ by the Jews. It makes the church to be something God set up as a substitution. It makes two resurrections, one of the just, which is most often said to be at the second coming of Christ; and a second resurrection of the lost a thousand years after the coming of Christ and the first resurrection. Some versions of Premillennial doctrines make Christ be nothing more than a glorified man. Some versions make Christ and all the saved to live on earth for all eternity with a body much as we now have. In short, it is a system of faith that has little in common with the New Testament. THE PREMILLENNIAL DOCTRINE IS BASED ON THE BELIEF THAT GOD CAN AND DID FAIL TO ACCOMPLISH HIS WILL. If both God and Christ did not fail, the Premillennial belief is completely destroyed.

 The Scofield Bible says God failed.

 Hal Lindsey in "There's A New World Coming" says God failed.

 Charles Ryrie in "The Basis of the Premillennial Faith" says God and Christ failed.

 The Premillennial doctrine affects the interpretation of the covenant with Abraham by making it not yet be fulfilled, but still to be fulfilled at some future time.

 It affects the interpretation of God's promise to David that his descendants would rule over Israel forever. Changes Christ now ruling in His kingdom, the church, to Christ literally ruling on this earth at some time in the future.

 It affects the interpretation of the Old Testament prophecies of the kingdom by making the kingdom be a combination of church and state on this earth, the earthly kingdom of the Old Testament.

 THERE ARE MANY DIVISIONS IN PREMILLENNIAL BELIEFS, AN ASTOUNDING LACK OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THEMSELVES. In fact, there are so many different variations of the Millennium theories that it would be impossible to accurately define what is meant by Premillennial. That which one person believes and calls Premillennial will be completely alien to that which another person believes and calls Premillennial. One book on Premillennial beliefs will have only a few similarity and many disagreements with another book on Premillennial beliefs.

 Most Premillennialists believe it was prophesied that Christ was to set up an earthly kingdom on the throne of David and reign from Jerusalem, but because the Jews rejected Him the establishment of the kingdom was put off unto after His second coming and the church was established instead, but only as a temporary substitution. The Jews will be restored, and the temple rebuilt.

 Some Premillennialists tell us that God planned for Christ to set up the kingdom of Heaven when He came, but His rejection by the Jews was a surprise to God, therefore, He set up the church as a substitution and at that time made plains to set up the kingdom of Heaven at the second coming of Christ. But, other Premillennialists give us many passages to show that God foretold of the kingdom to be set up at the second coming of Christ. HOW COULD GOD NOT HAVE KNOWN THAT THE KINGDOM WOULD NOT BE SET UP UNTO THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST AND AT THE SAME TIME FORETOLD IT? This Premillennial belief makes Christ a failure. He failed to set up the kingdom He came to set up. DO NOT BELIEVE THIS FOR CHRIST DID WHAT HE CAME TO DO. HE CAME TO FULFILL THE LAW AND THE PROPHETS, WHICH INCLUDED SETTING UP THE KINGDOM, AND HE DID.

 MOST PREMILLENNIALISTS BELIEVE CHRIST DID NOT EXIST UNTO HIS BIRTH.

 A few Premillennialists believe CHRIST EXISTED EQUAL WITH GOD BEFORE HIS BIRTH, but He was raised a man and He is now a man at the right hand of God and will be a man when He returns to rule the earth and will forever be a man; that Christ gave up deity to be a man.

 Some Premillennialists believe Christ, who they do not call Christ, but "God's Messiah" will return with the same earthly body He had and rule the earth from Jerusalem on the throne of David, and that the body we now have will live forever on this earth. Some believe that it will be the body that we now have but that it will be changed in such a way that it is not really the body we now have, and the earth will be changed in such a way that it will not really be the earth that we now live on but a completely new us will live on a completely new earth.

 To many, to put this body off and put on a new "spiritual body," and move from the earth that they know, to a place they know nothing about what it is like is a scaring and frightening thing.

 This Premillennial version says you can keep the body you now have, but it will be greatly improved. It will not have any of the bad things that many bodies now have, and it will live forever on this earth that you know, but it will be a greatly improved earth. Satan says you can have all this. All you have to do is to believe Christ is just a man, greater than any other man, but still just a man. That He had no preexistence before His birth. YOU CANNOT BELIEVE IN THE PREEXISTENCE AND DEITY OF CHRIST AND BELIEVE IN MOST PREMILLENNIAL VERSIONS. IF YOU DO, YOU MUST DENY THAT CHRIST IS NOW OR EVER HAVE BEEN EQUAL WITH GOD. YOU DENY THAT CHRIST HAD ANY PART IN MAKING THE EARTH AND MAN, AND YOU MUST BELIEVE HE WAS CREATED BY GOD JUST AS ALL MANKIND WERE. Not only must the preexistence and deity of Christ be denied, but many versions of the Millennium also dependence on the earthly body being raised and existing forever. "Flesh and blood" must inherit the kingdom of God.

 Some Premillennialists changes the body and the earth. They say the body will be changed to such an extent that no one now would know their own body and will not know the changed earth that the changed body will forever live on, yet they say this body we now have must be raised and live forever in the kingdom of God on this earth. With some, the change of the body or the earth does not seem to be as great as it is with others, BUT IT MUST BE THIS EARTHLY BODY RAISED TO LIVE ON THIS EARTH EITHER FOR A THOUSAND YEARS OR FOREVER; HOWEVER, MUCH OR LITTLE IT IS TO BE CHANGED FOR WITHOUT IT THE PREMILLENNIALISTS BELIEF FALLS. What body we will have in the resurrection is discussed in chapter one of my book, "Unconditional Immortality Or Resurrection Of The Dead" ISBN: 0-7414-4620-0.

 If you believe that Christ did not preexist before His birth, as most Millennialists do, Satan has won the victory. It is unimportant if you believe all the rest of the Bible for Satan has won. You would have denied Christ.

 APOCALYPTIC OR EARLY MILLENNIUM BELIEFS: There were much Apocalyptic writing in the time between the Testaments and in the first century, which was believed by many Jews and the early Christians were influenced by it. The early Millennium beliefs were that there was a dualistic world of both good and evil but the good would in time overcome the evil. The Apocalyptic Premillennial belief again became somewhat popular in the nineteenth century.

 MEDIEVAL ALLEGORICAL OR HISTORIC PREMILLENNIALISTS BELIEF: Satan was lord over the world and Christ over the Church. There was an ongoing battle between the two, but the battle has already been won through the cross and eventually what domain was left to Satan would be taken from him. The church will stay on earth and go through the tribulation period. Augustine's allegorical view was the view of many in middle ages and the reformation, and it is still believed by some today. It was the official belief of the medieval church. However, there were groups of Apocalyptic Millennialists after the Medieval Age, mostly under charismatic leaders and were often associated with radicalism and counterculture groups.

 DISPENSATIONAL OR LITERAL PREMILLENNIALISTS

 CLASSICAL OR UNMODIFIED DISPENSATIONAL belief is a radical division of the Apocalyptic Premillennialists, which teach there are seven distinct periods and God deals with man according to different principles in each of the periods. This view was first taught by John Nelson Darby about 1800 to 1880 and became well know when Scofield put most of Darby's views in the Scofield Reference Bible. Belief of Premillennialists goes back to about the third century. The belief of Dispensationalists begin with John Darby. WHEN A DOCTRINE IS KNOWN TO HAVE AN ORIGIN EIGHTEEN CENTURIES AFTER THE NEW TESTAMENT, SHOULD NOT ALL KNOW IT COULD NOT BE FROM THE BIBLE? In the past, The Dispensational doctrine was taught mostly by Pentecostal and Holiness churches but has now become wider spread. It seems to have become the most accepted version of Premillennial doctrines and has now spread to many churches.

 Some of the basic views of Dispensationalists.

 Israel will be restored, the temple rebuild, and the animal sacrifices of the Old Testament restored.

 There will be three resurrections (1) One resurrection at the rapture of both the dead saints and the living saints who will be changed (2) A second resurrection before the millennium (3) A third resurrection at the end of the millennium of the wicked and believers who died during the millennium.

 Dispensationalists divides the history of mankind into seven dispensations.

 Mankind was innocent from creation to the fall.

 Mankind under conscience from the fall to the flood. Mankind with authority over the earth from the flood to Abraham.

 Mankind under promise from Abraham to the Law of Moses.

 Mankind under the Law from the Law of Moses to Christ

 Mankind from the death of Christ to His second coming.

 Mankind from the second coming to the end of the Millennium.

 From the second coming to the end of the Millennium.

 Dispensationalists believes:

 There will be a second coming of Christ to set up His kingdom after the seven-year Tribulation.

 There will be a resurrection of the just before the millennium and a resurrection of the unjust after the millennium.

 The Jews will repent and receive the land forever that was promised to Abraham, which they say was unconditional and have not been fulfilled.

 The "Kingdom of Heaven" is the kingdom of David that was postponed when the Jews rejected Christ and He failed to establish an earthly kingdom with Israel, which He came to establish, but it will be restored for Israel. That the land promise was unconditional and was unfulfilled; therefore, Israel must be restored.

 The "Kingdom of God" is God's universal kingdom that will be worldwide. It seems that many Dispensationalists believe the Kingdom of Heaven will be God's kingdom on earth of Jews, and the Kingdom of God will be God's kingdom in Heaven of Gentiles. Instead of 144,000 Jews being the only ones in Heaven, as many Premillennialists believe, many Dispensationalists have no Jews and all Gentiles in Heaven; IN OTHER WORDS, MOST DISPENSATIONALISTS BELIEVE JEWS WILL SPEND ETERNITY ON EARTH ON THE LAND GOD PROMISED TO ABRAHAM FOREVER AND GENTILES WILL SPEND ETERNITY IN HEAVEN [Note: This is Dispensationalism as it is set forth in the Scofield Bible but this or no other belief seems to be universal among Premillennialists or Dispensationalists so do not be surprised if one says "that is not what I believe." Many do but some do not]. Dispensationalists are divided on where the church will be both during the rapture and during the millennium; also where and what the church will be after the millennium. Some teach it will be in Heaven or will dwell in the New Jerusalem hovering above the earth unto the millennium is over, others say the church will return to earth when seven-years are over and the millennium begins.

 PROGRESS OR MODIFIED DISPENSATIONAL PREMILLENNIALISTS have called in question and abandoned some of the teaching of classical dispensational beliefs.

 POSTMILLENNIALISTS believe the thousand years, like many things in Revelation, is not to be taken literally, but symbolical of a long period of time. Unlike many Premillennialists, most post Millennialists do not believe there will be a literally thousand years. Christ is now ruling as King and Priest [Hebrews 7] in the church, and eventually, the whole world will become Christians, and there will be a long period of peace. Christ will return after this time of peace. This Postmillennial belief was the dominant view among Protestants from the Reformation unto after the publication of the Scofield Reference Bible in 1909.

 Premillennialists or Postmillennialists

 Most Premillennialists believe every word of the Bible is to be taken literally - most, if not all Postmillennialists believe much of the Bible is symbolic and not to be taken literally.

 Most Premillennialists believe the thousand years of Revelation 20 is to be a literal thousand years - Most Postmillennialists believe that the thousand years is symbolic for a long period of time of peace before the second coming of Christ.

 Most Premillennialists believe in a rapture - most Postmillennialists do not.

 Most Premillennialists believe in a tribulation period - most Postmillennialists do not.

 Most Premillennialists believe Israel will be restored as God's chosen people - most Postmillennialists do not.

 Most Premillennialists believe the Old Testament animal sacrifices will be restored - most Postmillennialists do not.

 That both uses the name "Millennium" is one of the few things they have in common although both use it to mean two difference things. The Postmillennialists Millennium have (1) no rapture, (2) no tribulation period, (3) no literal thousand years, (4) no restored Israel, (5) no 144,000, (6) no animal sacrifices restored, (7) no coming of Christ before His second coming at the end of the earth, (8) no 100% literal interpretation of the Bible; it is most definitely not the same Millennium of the Premillennialists.

 Note: The above is the base view of these groups although it sometimes seems that there is no base view. There are many variations of beliefs in each view. For example: Two writers who both say they are Postmillennialists will have many differences and a third writer will teach some things that the other two do not believe. Many writers seem to believe a mixture of Postmillennial beliefs and Dispensational Premillennial beliefs.

 THE RAPTURE: But which rapture?

 "PRE-TRIBULATION RAPTURE" This view of the rapture is believed by many Dispensationalists. In this view the rapture will occur before the period of persecution, before the tribulation period begin. The rapture and an invisible second coming will take place before the seven-year tribulation. After the seven-year rapture Jesus will return to earth. Some, who believes this view, believe that there will be one coming of Christ, some two, and some three or more. This view may be believed by more Premillennialists than by all the others. The pre-tribulation rapture was not taught before about 1830 by anyone and only became well known after the Scofield Reference Bible was published in 1909. Dave MacPherson says, "We have seen that a young Scottish lassie named Margaret Macdonald had a private revelation in Port Glasgow, Scotland, in the early part of 1830 that a select group of Christians would be caught up to meet Christ in the air before the days of Antichrist. An eye-and-ear witness, Robert Norton M.D., preserved her handwritten account of her pre-trib rapture revelation in two of his books, and said it was the first time anyone ever split the second coming into two distinct parts or stages. His writings, along with much other Catholic Apostolic Church literature, have been hidden many decades from the mainstream of Evangelical thought and only recently surfaced. Margaret's views were well-known to those who visited her home, among them John Darby of the Brethren. Within a few months her distinctive prophetic outlook was mirrored in the September, 1830 issue of The Morning Watch and the early Brethren assembly at Plymouth, England. Early disciples of the pre-trib interpretation often called it a new doctrine." "The Incredible Cover-Up: The True Story of the Pre-Trib Rapture" 1975, Page 93.

 "MID-TRIBULATION RAPTURE" This view is that the church will be raptured away during the middle of the tribulation.

 "POST-TRIBULATION RAPTURE" This view is that the rapture will occur after the seven-year tribulation.

 "PARTIAL-RAPTURE" Only certain believers will be raptured. They do not agree with each other on whom or how they will be chosen or why only some of the saved will be raptured. This view is somewhat like the Pre-tribulation rapture, which believes the church is composed of true Christians and those who only make a profession of being a Christian. The true Christians will be raptured away and not go into the tribulation but those who only make a profession of being a Christian will be left on earth and be in the tribulation.

 "PREWRATH RAPTURE" Believers will escape the wrath by being removed from the earth before it begins.

 "MANY MINI-RAPTURES" This view is that there will not be just one rapture but many mini-raptures at different times. They do not agree with each other on (1) how many there will be, (2) if any are all are passed, (3) if any are all of the mini-raptures are yet to be.

 "ALREADY PAST RAPTURE" Or the A. D. 70 rapture. If you are living today, you have been "left behind." This view, like the above views, crosses denominational lines and is found in many of them.

 "SECRET RAPTURE" In many of their books of fictions there is a secret rapture? Secret from whom? If it were secret where did they find anything about it? When they tell about it in their books, how can it be secret? If all Christians were suddenly absent from the earth, how could there be anything "secret" about it?

 "FIRST AND SECOND STAGES" R. H. Boll's view is that Christ will come in two states. In the first stage the saints will be removed from the earth for a time; then the "real second coming" will be when Christ returns after the first stage.

 "COVENANT THEOLOGY" is that God covenant of grace remains the same in all the seven dispensations throughout the Old and New Testaments as opposed to the different purposes for each of the seven dispensations of Dispensational beliefs. Covenant Theology especially believe Israel and the church are under the same covenant of grace as opposed to both being under different covenants of grace as Dispensational Premillennialists believe them to be.

 PRETERISTS (full) view is that the second coming of Christ has already taken place along with the great tribulation, the rapture and the final judgment occurred in A. D. 70 when Jerusalem was destroyed and no second coming of Christ, no resurrection, no tribulation is yet to come, and the old heavens and earth completely passed away and now we are living in the new heavens and earth; the Great Commission has been completely fulfilled. The A. D. 70 theory called "Realized Eschatology" seems to be a renewal of the Preterits belief under a new name. Realized Eschatology teaches that Christ came in A. D. 70, all prophecies were fulfilled at that time, the Old Testament saints were resurrected, and all that are in Christ go to be with Christ (supposedly in Heaven) at the moment of their death.

 PRETERISTS (partial) view is that Christ did come in judgment on Israel in A. D. 70 and came in judgment on others nations, but the judgment of all at the second coming of Christ is yet to come.

 AMILLENNIALIAL VIEW believes the thousand years (ten time ten times ten, a full or complete period of time; ten in the Bible denotes a fullness, a thousand denotes a large indefinite number, God owns the cattle on a thousand hills Psalms 50:10) are symbolic of a long period of time, which begin with the establishment of the kingdom of God or Heaven (the church) in A. D. 30 and will last unto the return of Christ when the kingdom will be delivered up to God [1 Corinthians 15:24]. Amillennialists believe the "signs of the times" (tribulation, apostasy, the spirit of the Antichrist, etc.) to be marks of this present time, and there will not be a "golden age" of unprecedented gospel victory over all the earth before His return. The symbolism of the binding of Satan in Revelation 20 refers to Satan being limited by the victory of Christ over death.

 JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES view of the Millennium is that 144,000 will be chosen to go to Heaven and with Christ rule over all others who will be on earth. Also, all will be given a second chance in the Millennium.

 SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTIST view of the Millennium is that the Millennium will be in Heaven. During the thousand years the saints will be in Heaven, and at the end of the Millennium a Holy City will descend from Heaven and the saved will live a wonderful life in it forever. Their Heaven will be on this earth. The resurrection and destruction of the wicked will be at the end of the Millennium. They believe that at the second coming of Christ the unrighteous will be kill, the righteous will be taken back to Heaven for a thousand years. During the thousand years only Satan and his angels will inhabit the earth. At the end of the thousand years Christ will return to earth with the saved and the unrighteous will be raised for judgment. Satan gathers his angels and with the help of the resurrected unrighteous will attempt to interfere with the judgment. They will be destroyed. No seven-year rapture.

 LATTER-DAY SAINTS (Mormons) view of the Millennium is that Christ will destroy the wicked at His coming and the earth will be transformed to a terrestrial glory, as they believe it was before Adam's sin. During the thousand years, life on earth will be about as it is now but without sin, poverty, or crime. They will have children, build houses, and in all ways go about life as now. With their "new revelations" they add many more details, to many to list in the space I have. After the Millennium, they have three degrees of glory. The highest will be the celestial glory that will be on this earth, which will have the things the earth now has, cities, rivers, animals, etc. The Terrestrial and Celestial glories will not be on earth, but I have not found where they tell where these two glories will be. All that are not Mormons will be in one of the two. Only the few who were Mormons and fell away will be cast in outer darkness where there is no glory, but what happens to them seems not to have been made known at this time; or just not made known to those who are not Mormons; they keep much of their beliefs from those who are not Mormons.

 THE TEN LOST TRIBES ARE ENGLAND, WHICH IS THE REAL ISRAEL TODAY! I found it difficult to believe, and I think many will find this just as difficult to believe as I did; yet there is a rather large group within the Millennium beliefs that believe that the Anglo-Saxons Race is the true Israel. Richard Brothers was the originator, and it was later spread by Piazzi Smyth. There are books both pro and con on this theory. Perhaps the best book in defense of this theory is by Professor E. Odlum, "God's Covenant Man: British Israel." This was taught by Herbert W. Armstrong of the Church of God. For those who would like to know more of this theory, Foy E. Wallace, Jr. in "God's Prophetic Word" Pages 386-450 is good. That the Anglo-Saxon race is the ten tribes of Israel is completely contrary to the history of the origin of that race. The Mormons make a similar claim, that the Americans Indians are the lost ten tribes.

 SOME PREMILLENNIALISTS BELIEVE CHRIST WILL GO BACK TO HEAVEN WITH THE SAVED AFTER THE THOUSAND YEARS, SOME AFTER A THOUSAND AND SEVEN YEARS. They believe the judgment will be after the Millennium, after the thousand years of the kingdom on earth, and the believers will go to Heaven and the lost will go to Hell.

 THERE ARE SOME PREMILLENNIALISTS THAT BELIEVE CHRIST WILL RULE FROM HEAVEN, BUT THE KINGDOM OF GOD WILL BE ON THIS EARTH.

 "THAT THE FLESHLY AND SUBLUNARY STATE IS NOT TO TERMINATE WITH THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST, BUT TO BE THEN SET UP IN A NEW FORM; WHEN, WITH HIS GLORIFIED SAINTS, THE REDEEMER WILL REIGN IN PERSON ON THE THRONE OF DAVID AT JERUSALEM FOR A THOUSAND YEARS, OVER A WORLD OF MEN YET IN THE FLESH, EATING AND DRINKING, PLANTING AND BUILDING, MARRYING AND GIVING IN MARRIAGE, UNDER THIS MYSTERIOUS SWAY. This is Premillennialism, or - as the early fathers, and after them the reformers and our elder divines, termed it - Chiliasm...I have said, for example, that they expect the saints, in glorified bodies, to be associated with Christ in his Millennial reign; but what saints, is not agreed. The early chiliasts - so far as I have been able to gather their views - thought that those whom Christ will find alive at his coming would be left below during the thousand years, and only such as had died before his coming would appear with him in glory. A few in modern times are of the same opinion, postponing the change of the living saints till the end of the Millennium. But, the great majority of modern Premillennialists hold that the saints of both classes - the dead by resurrection, and the living in instantaneous transformation - will appear with Christ in glory at the beginning of the Millennium. Again, I have said they look for a reign over a world of men in flesh and blood; but what men, is not agreed. The moderns, for the most part, expect the restoration of the Jews to Palestine, and their supremacy over the nations of the earth: while the early chilants appear to have agreed with their opponents, that Christianity had forever abolished Jewish peculiarities; and though they were termed Judaizers, this was not, so far as I can observe, because they contended for any Millennial supremacy of Jew over Gentiles, but because their system Judaized Christianity itself. In a word, I have said they expect a reign upon earth of Christ and his glorified saints; but whether actually upon the earth, or only over and hovering above it, in the air, and whether visibly or invisibly - whether the ruled will see their rulers, and, if so, to what extent, whether fully or but partially, whether always or only at time - is by no means agreed." David Brown, "Christ's Second Coming: Will It Be Premillennial?" Pages 6-7, 1858.

 But, other Premillennialists believe Christ will rule from Heaven but the kingdom of God will be on this earth. Some Premillennialists believe Christ will go back to Heaven with the saved after the thousand years. They believe the judgment will be after the Millennium, after the thousand years of the kingdom on earth, and the believers will go to Heaven and the lost will either go to Hell or be totally destroyed.

 Many believe there will be a rapture in which the dead saints will be resurrected and both the living saints and the resurrected saints will be taken from the earth to be with Christ for seven years before the beginning of the thousand years.

 Some believe after the thousand years Satan will be loosed "for a little season." I have never known of anyone that gives a real reason why Satan will be loosed or why there is "a little season" after the Millennium reign of Christ and before the judgment.

 Some Premillennialists believe Christ and the saved will go back to Heaven after the thousand years

 Some Premillennialists believe Christ and the saved will go back to Heaven after a thousand and seven years

 Some Premillennialists believe Christ and the saved will forever be on this earth, never in Heaven.

 Some Premillennialists believe the earth will end after the thousand years.

 Some Premillennialists do not believe the earth will ever end but will be restored.

 Some Premillennialists believe it is not the purpose or the work of "the church age," which they call the time we are now in, to convert the world.

 Some Premillennialists believe that during the Millennium the temple in Jerusalem will be rebuilt, the feasts of the Old Testament restored and the priesthood and sacrificial system of animals will be restored.

 Some Premillennialists believe Hell will be on this earth, that the Lake of Fire will be south of Jerusalem, some that it will be in Edom, which will become a land of burning pitch and is pictured in Isaiah 66. Johnson says, "I believe the Lake of Fire is a literal lake of fire that will appear on the new earth after the Judgment (En 67:13). The Lake of Fire is the same thing as Gehenna...I believe the Lake of Fire is literal because I believe our bodies are literally raised from the dead (Rom 8:11) and those damned at the Judgment have both body and soul literally cast into hell...The prophecies concerning Gehenna have not yet been fulfilled but will be fulfilled at the Judgment. I believe that the region south of Jerusalem extending down on into Edom (Jer 49:17, Isa 34:6, 10-11) will be the location of the literal Lake of Fire, Gehenna. The literal Valley of Hinnom in ancient days served as a type of the Lake of Fire (as so many of the things of the Jews did - Col 22:16-17) that will literally come to pass at the end of days. The location of the present day Valley of Hinnom will serve as the northern edge of the Lake of Fire, and when Jesus speaks of casting into Gehenna, He means just that. Gehenna will be bigger in those days, but it will be basically in the same place (cp. Isa 66:24) but changed to a lake of fire."

 Some Premillennialists believe the saved will forever be able to go out from Jerusalem and view the lost being tormented in a literal Lake of Fire.

 Some Premillennialists believe, "Then the pit of torment shall appear, and opposite it shall be the place of rest; and the furnace of hell shall be disclosed, and opposite it the paradise of delight." The Lake of Fire will appear to the south of Jerusalem at the same time the New that Jerusalem comes down from heaven. James Johnson and others taught this view.

 Some Premillennialists believe many will become believers in the Millennium that did not believe in their lifetime before the Millennium, and they will be saved from "Hell" and given eternal life, but they will not receive access to God or adoption as sons. "Johnson Dozier Debate"

 Some believe during the thousand years the righteous will live and reign with Christ in Heaven, and the earth will have no one living on it. Isaiah 24:103 is used to teach the wicked will be dead upon the earth. It seems that most Millennialists believe the lake of fire will be the end of the wicked, that there will be no eternal Hell.

 Some even believe God will forever leave Heaven and live on earth with men. Dr. Charles Stanley in "Eternal Security" pages 110-111, and others advocated this view.

 Some Premillennialists believe there will be two, three, or more resurrections. They use resurrections in the plural repeatedly although it is never used in the plural in the Bible.

 Some Premillennialists believe the church, which is the bride of Christ, his body, will end [die] at the beginning of the thousand years.

 Some Premillennialists believe that the Law of Moses will be reset up in the Millennium with its animal sacrifices.

 Many Premillennialists believe the second coming of Christ will take place at the beginning of the thousand years, but Postmillennialists say no the second coming it will be at the end of the thousand years.

 1914 A. D. is a very significant year to some Millennialists but not to all.

 MANY BELIEVES THERE WILL BE A SEVEN-YEAR RAPTURE in which the dead saints will be resurrected and both, the living saints, and those who would have been resurrected will be taken from the earth to be with Christ for seven years. After reading many pages by those who believe in the "rapture," I am thoroughly convinced that on this they are the in the company of the most divided and confused people on earth. I think it would be difficult to find any two that believe the same thing. Below is a list of some of the major versions of the rapture, but within each of these versions most have their own view that is different in one or more ways then any of the others who say they believe the same view. The incompatibility of the many versions of the Millennium doctrines is, to say the least, amazing.

 SOME OF THE SEVEN-YEAR RAPTURE VERSIONS

 Some Premillennialists believe the rapture will be at the second coming of Christ and will end seven years later at His third coming at the beginning of the Millennium reign.

 Some Premillennialists believe the rapture will be at the beginning of the seven-year tribulation.

 Some Premillennialists believe the rapture will be in the middle of the seven-year tribulation; the church will go through 3 and 1/2 years of the tribulation before it is "caught away."

 Some Premillennialists don't believe there will be a rapture.

 Some Premillennialists believe Israel will be restored including annual sacrifice. The restoring of Israel is something that must happen before most of the Premillennialists views could become a reality.

 Some Premillennialists believe Jews will be converted to Christ and the 144,000 in Revelation 7 are Jews in the rapture that will have been converted and will be the world greatest evangelist. They will convert most or all the world to Christ in the seven-year rapture when the church has been caught away to Heaven. When Christ and the church return to earth after the rapture there will be a thousand years of peace before the second resurrection and judgment of the wicked. Note: It is unclear to me what Millennialists believe they will be converted to, converted to Christ or converted to the Law of Moses for many believe the New Covenant and the church were just an afterthought and will end when the Millennium begins.

 Some Premillennialists believe only 144,000 Jews will be in the Millennial kingdom and the 144,000 are all Jewish preachers and the Millennial kingdom will be made of only the 144,000 Jewish preachers. This view is preached by Dr. David Jeremiah, president of Christian Heritage College in San Diego, in a series of messages "Signs Of The Second Coming" which is reviewed in "Dispensational Premillennialism Refuted, Again!" By B. R. Curd. Dr. Jeremiah also teaches the Temple will be rebuilt in Jerusalem and animal sacrifices will be restored. Many Millennialists agree with him, but there are some that do not.

 Some believe etc. etc. There seem to be no end to the variations of beliefs.

 THE TRIBULATION PERIOD. Most think it is the 70th week of Daniel's 70 weeks in Daniel 9. There is little or no unity of teaching on what will happen in this "week." About all that most do agree on is that it will be a bad time to be on earth. Many see the nations that exist today, the U. S., Russia and others being in the tribulation. For years in the recent past Russia was seen to have a large part it in the tribulation, but now few see Russia in it. Every uprising or war and every natural disaster is seen as a sure sign that the Millennium is near only to be replaced by new ones when they become past history.

 AFTER THE MILLENNIUM. Most, but not all, Millennialists believe Christ will forever be on earth and will rule in the "new Jerusalem." The earth will be restored to be as it was before Adam sinned. It seems few Millennialists believe anyone will be in Heaven, but at their funerals most have gone to Heaven to be with the others that have gone before them. Others believe mankind will forever be on the earth and no person will ever be in Heaven, but Christ will rule the earth from Heaven.

 The basic views (in general) of Premillennialists.

 Both God and Christ failed. God foretold that the Christ would come and restore the kingdom to Israel, and Christ would rule on the throne of David.

 It was not foreseen by God that the Jews would reject Christ as their king.

 The death of Christ was not in the plan of God and Christ would not have given His life for us if He had not been rejected. In the Millennium theory there is no place for the death and resurrection of Christ for if the kingdom had been restored to Israel and Christ has at that time sit on the literal throne of David and ruled the world from Jerusalem, there would have been no death or resurrection of Christ.

 The church and the kingdom are not the same. The church is just a substitute; an afterthought unto the kingdom can be setup. It could not have been foreseen or told about in any of the Old Testament prophets for not even God foresaw it.

 Christ is coming a second time to do what He failed to do the first time, to restore Israel and the throne of David.

 Animal sacrifices will be restored.

 On the Rapture, the Tribulation and the thousand years and what will happen to the kingdom after the thousand years there seem to be no one basic view.

 THROUGH OUT THIS ARTICLE, WHEN I SAY, "Millennialists believe" IT WILL BE SOMETHING THAT MANY OF THEM DO BELIEVE, BUT ALSO SOMETHING THAT SOME OF THEM MAY NOT BELIEVE. THERE IS A SUCH DISAGREEMENT AMONG THEM THAT NOTHING IS BELIEVED BY ALL.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 2

 THE NATURE OF CHRIST

 "We know that, when He appears, we shall be like Him, because we shall see His just as He is" [1 John 3:2]. Christ now, while He is at the right hand of God in Heaven has a spiritual body and this is how we will see Him when He returns. Not the nature He had when He had for about 33 years when He was in the image of Adam (an earthly body as Adam), but the nature He has now while He is at the right hand of God in Heaven. What Christ is like now is what He will be like "when He appears." The body He now has and will have at that time is basis to understand what we shall be after the resurrection.

 THE NATURE OF CHRIST BEFORE HE BECAME FLESH, the God who made us and all things.

 "Then God said, 'Let Us make man in Our image" [Genesis 1:26].

 "IN THE BEGINNING WAS THE WORD [CHRIST], AND THE WORD [CHRIST] WAS WITH GOD, AND THE WORD [CHRIST] WAS GOD. HE [CHRIST] WAS IN THE BEGINNING WITH GOD. ALL THINGS CAME INTO BEING BY HIM [CHRIST], AND APART FROM HIM [CHRIST] NOTHING CAME INTO BEING THAT HAS COME INTO BEING. IN HIM [CHRIST] WAS LIFE, AND THE LIFE WAS THE LIGHT OF MEN...HE [CHRIST] WAS IN THE WORLD AND THE WORLD WAS MADE THROUGH HIM [CHRIST]...AND THE WORD [CHRIST] BECAME FLESH, AND DWELLED AMONG US" [JOHN 1:1-14].

 John states three facts in such a simple way that a child could understand them.

 (1) "In the beginning was the Word" [John 1:14; 1 John 1:1; Revelation 19:3].

 (2) "And the Word was with God"

 (3) "And the Word was God."

 Then he restates it so that no one could misunderstand what he had said.

 (4) "The same was in the beginning with God"

 (5) "All things were made through him"

 (6) "And without him was not anything made that has been made."

 "For God did not SEND THE SON INTO THE WORLD to judge the world, but that the world should be saved through Him" [John 3:17]. "FOR I HAVE COME DOWN FROM HEAVEN, not to do My own will, but the will of HIM WHO SENT ME" [John 6:38].

 "AND THE WORD BECAME FLESH, AND DWELLED AMONG US" [John 1:14].

 "Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, BEFORE ABRAHAM WAS BORN, I AM" [John 8:58]. In John 8 Jesus claims to be one with God about 12 times.

 "Christ: for in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily" [Colossians 2:9].

 "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich" [2 Corinthians 8:9]

 "Not that any man has seen the Father, ACCEPT THE ONE WHO IS FROM GOD; HE HAS SEEN THE FATHER" [John 6:46]. If, as some Premillennialists teach, that Jesus did not exist before His birth, He had not seen the Father. If Premillennialists were right, that Jesus did not exist before His birth, then Jesus lied.

 "And no one has ascended into heaven, BUT HE THAT DESCENDED OUT OF HEAVEN, even the Son of man" [John 3:13].

 "Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into His hands, AND THAT HE CAME FORTH FROM GOD, AND WAS GOING BACK TO GOD" [John 13:3].

 "And have believed that I CAME FORTH FROM THE FATHER. I CAME FORTH FROM THE FATHER, AND HAVE COME INTO THE WORLD; I AM LEAVING THE WORLD AGAIN, AND GOING TO THE FATHER" [John 16:27-28].

 "For this cause; therefore, the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only brake the Sabbath, but also called God his own father, MAKING HIMSELF EQUAL WITH GOD" [John 5:18].

 "Who, existing in the form of God, counted not the BEING ON AN EQUALITY WITH GOD a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant" [Philippians 2:6-7].

 "When the fullness of time came, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman" [Galatians 4:4].

 See Matthew 1:19-25; 20:28; Luke 1:26-38; 19:10.

 This proves beyond any doubt that Christ preexisted with the Father in Heaven before He came to earth, in the same form and equal with the Father.

 His claim to being equal with God was even acknowledged by His enemies, but they called it blasphemy [John 5:17; 5:18; 8:58-59; 10:33-36]. If, as some Premillennialists tell us that Christ did not exist unto His birth, it would have been blasphemy and a sin to make Himself equal with God. Therefore, if He did not exist before His birth, He did blaspheme and He was a sinner just as we are and His death did not save us from our sins. But, some Premillennialists tell us that Christ did not exist unto His birth!!! Is there anyway God's word could say "the word" preexisted that they would believe? "The word" existed before time began.

 "And now, glorify Me together with Yourself, Father, with the glory WHICH I HAD WITH YOU BEFORE THE WORLD WAS" [John 17:5]. Christ existed with God before the world was made, long before He became a man.

 And again Christ says, "I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, THE ALMIGHTY" [Revelation 1:8]. Jesus clearly says He is "THE ALMIGHTY."

 "For by Him [Christ] all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers and authorities--all thing have been created by Him and for Him. AND HE IS BEFORE ALL THING, and in Him all things hold together" [Colossians 1:16-17]. Jesus Christ is the Creator of the universe. Three things are here stated.

 (1) "For in Him were all things created"

 All things "in the havens and upon the earth"

 "Things visible and thing invisible"

 "Whether thrones or dominions or principalities or power"

 "All things have been created through Him, and for Him"

 (2) "And He is before all things"

 (3) "And in Him all things hold together"

 Christ said, "I AND THE FATHER ARE ONE. The Jews took up stones again to stone Him. Jesus answered them, 'Many good works have I showed you from the Father; for which of those works do you stone Me'? The Jews answered him, 'For a good work we stone you not, but for blasphemy; and because that you, being a man, MAKE YOURSELF GOD'" [John 10:30-33]. If Christ is not God, He is an impostor and a liar. The Jews did not understand Christ to be saying He was God's chosen one, as many Premillennialists say. Without any doubt, they understood Him to be saying He was God.

 "A virgin shall conceive and bear a son and shall call his name IMMANUEL" [Isaiah 7:14]. Immanuel means "God with us." Matthew says, "Now all this is come to pass, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel: which is, being interpreted, God with us" [Matthew 1:22-23].

 "Looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of OUR GREAT GOD AND SAVIOR, CHRIST JESUS: who gave Himself for us" [Titus 2:13-14].

 "Of our GOD AND SAVIOR, CHRIST JESUS" [2 Peter 1:1 New American Standard Version].

 "But of the Son he says 'YOUR THRONE, O GOD, is forever and ever'" [Hebrews 1:8].

 "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, yes and forever" [Hebrews 13:8; also Hebrews 1:12; Psalms 102:25-27].

 "Christ Jesus who, existing in the form of God, counted not the being on AN EQUALITY WITH GOD a thing to be grasped" [Philippians 2:5-6].

 Also, Revelation 10:6 and 14:6-7

 Jesus built all things [John 1:1-3; 1:10; Acts 14:15; Ephesians 3:9; Colossians 1:16; 1 Corinthians 8:6; Revelation 4:11; 10:6].

 God built all things [Hebrews 3:4].

 Therefore, Jesus and God are one God. "I and the Father are one" [John 10:30].

 ONLY GOD IS TO BE WORSHIPED. NO MAN OR ANGEL IS TO BE WORSHIPED, BUT CHRIST IS WORSHIPED. [Isaiah 45:21-23; Matthew 2:1; 14:33; 28:9; 28:17; Luke 24:51-52; John 9:37-38; Acts 7:59; 1 Corinthians 16:22; Philippians 2:11-11; 1 Timothy 1:12; Revelation 1:17; 5:8-14; many more]. IF CHRIST WERE NOT GOD BUT ACCEPTED OR ALLOWED HIMSELF TO BE WORSHIPED, HE WOULD BE PUTTING HIMSELF IN THE PLACE OF GOD WHEN HE WAS ONLY A MAN. IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BLASPHEMING AS THE JEWS FREQUENTLY ACCUSED HIM OF DOING [Mark 2:6-8; John 5:18].

 JESUS IS THE "I AM"

 "Before Abraham was born, I AM" [John 8:58].

 "But he said unto them, I AM, be not afraid" [John 6:20; Matthew 14:27; Mark 6:50]. "It is I" in many English translations, but "I AM" in the Greek. See Alfred Marshall "Parallel New Testament In Greek And English," Page 46.

 Barnes Notes on the New Testament, Colossians 1:16. "He does not declare that he created all things in the spiritual kingdom of God, or that he arranged the events of the gospel dispensation...but that everything was created by him...There could not possibly be a more explicit declaration, the universe was created by Christ, than this. As if the simple declaration in the most comprehensive terms were not enough, the apostle goes into a specification of things existing in heaven and earth, and so varies the statement as if to prevent the possibility of mistake...There could not be a more positive declaration than this, that the universe was created by Christ; and if so, he is Divine. The work of creation is the exertion of the highest power to which we can form a conception, and is often appealed to in the Scriptures by God to prove that he is Divine, in contradistinction from idols...The assertion is, the 'creative' power of Christ was exerted on 'all things.' It is not in reference to angels only, or to man, or to Jews, or to Gentiles; it is in relation to 'everything in heaven and on earth.'"

 Adam Clarke Commentary on Colossians 1:15-16. "Verse 15. Who is the image of the invisible God. The counterpart of God Almighty, and if the image of the invisible God, consequently, nothing that appeared in him could be that image; for if it could be visible in the Son, it could also be visible in the Father; but if the Father be invisible, consequently, his image in the Son must be invisible also. This is that form of God of which he divested himself; the ineffable glory in which he not only did not appear, as to its splendor and accompaniments, but concealed also its essential nature; that inaccessible light which no man, no created being, can possibly see. This was that Divine nature, the fullness of the Godhead bodily, which dwelled in him. The first-born of every creature. I suppose this phrase to mean the same as that, Philippians 2:9: God has given him a name which is above every name; he is as man at the head of all the creation of God; nor can he with any propriety be considered as a creature, having himself created all things, and existed before anything was made. If it be said that God created him first, and that he, by a delegated power from God, created all things, this is most flatly contradicted by the apostle's reasoning in the 16th and 17th verses. Colossians 1:16,17 As the Jews term Jehovah becoro shel olam, the first-born of all the world, or of all the creation, to signify his having created or produced all things; (see Wolfius in loc.) so Christ is here termed, and the words which follow in the 16th and 17th Colossians 1:16,17 verses are the proof of this. The phraseology is Jewish; and as they apply it to the supreme Being merely to denote his eternal preexistence, and to point him out as the cause of all things; it is most evident that St. Paul uses it in the same way, and illustrates his meaning in the following words, which would be absolutely absurd if we could suppose that by the former he intended to convey any idea of the inferiority of Jesus Christ. Verse 16. For by him were all things created, two verses contain parts of the same subject. I shall endeavor to distinguish the statements of the apostle, and reason from them in such a way as the premises shall appear to justify, without appealing to any other scripture in proof of the doctrine, which I suppose these verses to vindicate. Four things are here asserted: 1. That Jesus Christ is the Creator of the universe; of all things visible and invisible; of all things that had a beginning, whether they exist in time or in eternity. 2. That whatsoever was created was created FOR himself; that he was the sole end of his own work. 3. That he was prior to all creation, to all beings, whether in the visible or invisible world. 4. That he is the preserver and governor of all things; for by him all things consist. Now, allowing St. Paul to have understood the terms which he used, he must have considered Jesus Christ as being truly and properly God. I. Creation is the proper work of an infinite, unlimited, and unoriginated Being; possessed of all perfection's in their highest degrees; capable of knowing, willing, and working infinitely, unlimitedly, and without control: and as creation signifies the production of being where all was absolute nonentity, so it necessarily implies that the Creator acted of and from himself; for as, previously to this creation, there was no being, consequently, he could not be actuated by any motive, reason, or impulse, without himself; which would argue there was some being to produce the motive or impulse, or to give the reason. Creation, therefore, is the work of him who is unoriginated, infinite, unlimited, and eternal. But, Jesus Christ is the Creator of all things, therefore, Jesus Christ must be, according to the plain construction of the apostle's words, truly and properly GOD. II. As, previously to creation, there was no being but God, consequently, the great First Cause must, in the exertion of his creative energy, have respect to himself alone; for he could no more have respect to that which had no existence, than he could be moved by nonexistence, to produce existence or creation. The Creator, therefore, must make everything FOR himself. Should it be objected that Christ created officially or by delegation, I answer: This is impossible; for, as creation requires absolute and unlimited power, or omnipotence, there can be but one Creator; because it is impossible that there can be two or more Omnipotents, Infinities, or Eternals. It is therefore, evident that creation cannot be effected officially, or by delegation, for this would imply a Being conferring the office, and delegating such power; and that the Being to whom it was delegated was a dependent Being; consequently, not unoriginated and eternal; but this the nature of creation proves to be absurd. 1. The thing being impossible in itself, because no limited being could produce a work that necessarily requires omnipotence. 2. It is impossible, because, if omnipotence be delegated, he to whom it is delegated had it not before, and he who delegates it ceases to have it, and consequently ceases to be GOD; and the other to whom it was delegated becomes God, because such attributes as those with which he is supposed to be invested are essential to the nature of God. On this supposition God ceases to exist, though infinite and eternal, and another not naturally infinite and eternal becomes such; and thus, an infinite and eternal Being ceases to exist, and another infinite and eternal Being is produced in time, and has a beginning, which is absurd. Therefore, as Christ is the Creator, he did not create by delegation, or in any official way. Again, if he had created by delegation or officially, it would have been for that Being who gave him that office, and delegated to him the requisite power; but the text says that all things were made BY him and FOR him, which is a demonstration that the apostle understood Jesus Christ to be truly and essentially God. III. As all creation necessarily exists in time, and had a commencement, and there was an infinite duration in which it did not exist, whatever was before or prior to that must be no part of creation; and the Being who existed prior to creation, and before all things-all existence of every kind, must be the unoriginated and eternal God: but St. Paul says, Jesus Christ was before all things; ergo, the apostle conceived Jesus Christ to be truly and essentially God. IV. As every effect depends upon its cause, and cannot exist without it; so creation, which is an effect of the power and skill of the Creator, can only exist and be preserved by a continuance of that energy that first gave it being. Hence, God, as the Preserver, is as necessary to the continuance of all things, as God the Creator was to their original production. But, this preserving or continuing power is here ascribed to Christ, for the apostle says, And by him do all things consist; for as all being was derived from him as its cause, so all being must subsist by him, as the effect subsists by and through its cause. This is another proof that the apostle considered Jesus Christ to be truly and properly God, as he attributes to him the preservation of all created things, which property of preservation belongs to God alone; ergo, Jesus Christ is, according to the plain obvious meaning of every expression in this text, truly, properly, independently, and essentially God. Such are the reasonings to which the simple letter of these two verses necessarily leads me. I own it is possible that I may have misapprehended this awful subject, for humanum est errare et nescire; but I am not conscious of the slightest intentional flaw in the argument. Taking, therefore, the apostle as an uninspired man, giving his own view of the Author of the Christian religion, it appears, beyond all controversy, that himself believed Christ Jesus to be God; but considering him as writing under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, then we have, from the plain grammatical meaning of the words which he has used, the fullest demonstration (for the Spirit of God cannot lie) that he who died for our sins and rose again for our justification, and in whose blood we have redemption, was GOD over all. And as God alone can give salvation to men, and God only can remit sin; hence with the strictest propriety we are commanded to believe on the Lord Jesus, with the assurance that we shall be saved. Glory be to God for this unspeakable gift!"

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 3

 CHRIST IN THE OLD TESTAMENT

 Luke 24:46: "And He said unto them, THUS, IT IS WRITTEN, THAT THE CHRIST SHOULD SUFFER AND RISE AGAIN FROM THE DEAD THE THIRD DAY." HOW COULD THE DEATH AND RESURRECTION OF CHRIST ON THE THIRD DAY BE WRITTEN WHEN PREMILLENNIALISTS TELL US THAT NOT EVEN GOD KNEW ABOUT THE REJECTION AND DEATH OF CHRIST? YET, CHRIST SPEAKS OF IT REPEATEDLY AND REPEATEDLY SAYS IT WAS WRITTEN. GOD, CHRIST AND THE PROPHETS DID KNOW, WHICH MAKES NOT POSSIBLE THE CLAIM OF PREMILLENNIALISTS THAT GOD DID INTEND TO RESTORE THE KINGDOM TO ISRAEL AT THE FIRST COMING OF CHRIST BUT AGAINST HIS WILL GOD HAD TO PUT IT OFF BECAUSE THE JEWS REJECTED HIM AND PUT HIM TO DEATH. There are many prophecies about Christ in the Old Testament. Prophecies about:

 The birth of Christ. Genesis 3:15; Galatians 4:4

 The lineage of Christ. Genesis 49:10; Luke 3:33

 Christ was the prophet to come. Deuteronomy 18:15-19; Acts 3:20-22

 The betrayal of Christ. Psalms 41:9; Luke 22:47-48

 Christ being sold for thirty pieces of silver. Zechariah 11:11-12; Matthew 26:15; 27:1-10

 The death of Christ. Zechariah 12:10; John 10:27

 The resurrection of Christ. Psalms 16:10; Luke 14:7 Acts 2:25-28

 Christ would be a priest and king to the church, not to Israel, not the king of only one earthly nation for only the lifetime of one person. Psalms 110:4; Hebrews 5:5-6

 It is repeatedly said the prophesies knew beforehand and wrote of the suffering, death and resurrection of Christ, yet Millennialists say not so, not God or the prophets knew. "For I delivered unto your first of all that which also I received: THAT CHRIST DIED FOR OUR SINS ACCORDING TO THE SCRIPTURES; AND THAT HE WAS BURIED; AND THAT HE HAS BEEN RAISED ON THE THIRD DAY ACCORDING TO THE SCRIPTURES" [1 Corinthians 15:3-4]. The scriptures Paul was speaking of was the Old Testament scriptures. How was the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus "according to the scriptures" if not even God foreknow about it?

 "The Son of man goes, EVEN AS IT IS WRITTEN of him" [Matthew 26:24; Mark 14:21].

 "Then said Jesus unto them, 'All you shall be offended in me this night: FOR IT IS WRITTEN, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad'" [Matthew 26:31; Mark 14:27].

 "And he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, 'Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and ALL THE THINGS THAT ARE WRITTEN THROUGH THE PROPHETS shall be accomplished unto the Son of man. For he shall be delivered up unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and shamefully treated, and spit upon: and they shall scourge and kill him: and the third day he shall rise again'" [Luke 18:31-33]. How could all this be written through the prophets when the Premillennialists tell us no one, not even God, know about it?

 "But he looked upon them, and said, WHAT THEN IS THIS THAT IS WRITTEN, the stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the head of the corner?" [Luke 20:27]. It was Israel that rejected the stone (Christ).

 "For these are days of vengeance, THAT ALL THINGS WHICH ARE WRITTEN MAY BE FULFILLED" [Luke 21:22].

 "For I say unto you, THAT THIS WHICH IS WRITTEN must be fulfilled in me, 'And he was reckoned with transgressors:' FOR THAT WHICH CONCERNS ME HAS FULFILLMENT" [Luke 22:27].

 "And beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, HE INTERPRETED TO THEM IN ALL THE SCRIPTURES THE THINGS CONCERNING HIMSELF" [Luke 24:27].

 "These are my words which I spoke unto you, while I was yet with you, THAT ALL THINGS MUST NEEDS BE FULFILLED, WHICH ARE WRITTEN IN THE LAW OF MOSES, AND THE PROPHETS, AND THE PSALMS, CONCERNING ME" [Luke 24:44].

 "For if you believed Moses, you would believe me; FOR HE WROTE OF ME" [John 5:46].

 "FOR IT IS WRITTEN in the book of Psalms...his office let another take" [Acts 1:20].

 "Him being delivered up by the DETERMINATE COUNSEL AND FOREKNOWLEDGE GOD" [Acts 2:23]. If Jesus being delivered up was in the foreknowledge of God, how do Millennialists say God did not know it was going to happen? No matter how clear God says he foreknow of the rejection and death of Christ at the hands of the Jews; Millennialists must deny that God did know for if He did know there could be no Millennium.

 "AND WHEN THEY HAD FULFILLED ALL THINGS THAT WERE WRITTEN OF HIM, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a tomb. But, God raised him from the dead" [Acts 13:29].

 "God has fulfilled the same unto our children, in that he raised up Jesus; AS ALSO IT WRITTEN IN THE SECOND PSALM, You are my Son, this day have I begotten you" [Acts 13:33]. Millennialists do not agree with Paul. They say it was not written in the second Psalm or any other place.

 "Brethren, hear me: Symeon has rehearsed how first God visited the Gentiles, TO TAKE OUT OF THEM A PEOPLE FOR HIS NAME, AND TO HIS AGREE THE WORDS OF THE PROPHETS; AS IT IS WRITTEN" [Acts 15:14-15]. Also Acts 24:14; Hebrews 1:7. It is the church that is being spoken of as "a people for his name."

 "Concerning which salvation THE PROPHETS SOUGHT AND SEARCHED DILIGENTLY, WHO PROPHESIED OF THE GRACE THAT SHOULD COME UNTO YOU searching what time or what manner of the Spirit of Christ which was in them did point unto, WHEN IT TESTIFIED BEFOREHAND THE SUFFERINGS OF CHRIST, AND THE GLORIES THAT SHOULD FOLLOW THEM" [1 Peter 1:10-11]. The church and the Gospel bringing salvation to all nations are a part of "the glories that should follow" the sufferings of Christ.

 "And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up: that whosoever believes may in him have eternal life" [John 5:14-15]. The lifting up of the serpent by Moses was a foreshadow of the death of Christ. From the beginning Christ knew He would be rejected by the Jews and be lifted up on the cross. If He had not been, there would be no salvation for anyone; not for Jew, Gentile, not even for Israel if Christ had restored Israel and not have been lifted up and His blood had not been shed, yet Millennialists tell up that His being lifted up was not the plain of God and was unknown by God. The blood of animals cannot save. Without the death and resurrection of Jesus THERE WOULD BE NO SALVATION FOR ANYONE, NOT EVEN FOR ISRAEL IF CHRIST HAD RESTORED IT AND NOT HAVE SHED HIS BLOOD AND NOT EVEN IN THE MILLENNIUM. Yet, Millennialists tell us His death was not known about or planned by God. If Christ had restored the earthly kingdom of Israel, the Jews who would have had a part in it would still have been mortal and would all have died of old age. There would have been no eternal life in the earthly kingdom the Jews were looking for, and they did not think anyone in the restored kingdom would live beyond their normal lifetime just as Jews did not live beyond a normal lifetime when David was the king of Israel. Yet, Millennialists tell us an earthly kingdom of Israel restored to be just as it was in the time of David was the kind of kingdom God was going to set up and this earthly kingdom of Israel would have been much better then the church which was just a substitute to last only unto Christ comes back the restores the kingdom to Israel.

 Psalms 22:1; 16-18: "My God, my God, why have You forsaken me?...They pierced My hands and My feet...They divide My garments among them, and for My clothing they cast lots." Psalms 69:21: "They also give Me gall for My food, and for My thirst they give Me vinegar to drink."

 Psalms 2: "Why do the nations rage, and the peoples meditate a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against Jehovah, and against his anointed, saying, let us break their bonds asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that sits in the heavens will laugh: The Lord will have them in derision. Then will he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure: yet I have set my king Upon my holy hill of Zion. I will tell of the decree: Jehovah said unto me, You are my son; This day have I begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations (footnote: Gentiles) for your inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for your possession."

 Acts 4:24-25 quotes this Psalm and applied it to the first coming of Christ.

 Acts 13:33 applied it to the resurrection of Christ, not to His second coming and the Millennium.

 Hebrews 1:5 and [4] Hebrews 5:5 both quote Psalms 2:7 as having been fulfilled. Verse 8 shows the worldwide nature of the Kingdom of Heaven, all who will believe.

 Isaiah 7:14: "Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name IMMANUEL (God with us)." "Now all this is come to pass, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name IMMANUEL (God with us)" [Matthew 2:22-23: Luke 1:26-35].

 Isaiah 9:6-7: "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder; and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, MIGHTY GOD, EVERLASTING FATHER, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to establish it, and to uphold it with righteousness from henceforth, even forever."

 Isaiah 53: "Who has believed our message? And to whom has the arm of Jehovah been revealed? For he grew up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he has no form nor comeliness; and when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised, and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and as one from whom men hide their face he was despised; and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows; yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned everyone to his own way; and Jehovah has lain on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, yet when he was afflicted he opened not his mouth; as a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearer is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who among them considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living for the transgression of my people to whom the stroke was due? And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death; although he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. Yet, it pleased Jehovah to bruise him; he has put him to grief: when you shall make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of Jehovah shall prosper in his hand. He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by the knowledge of himself shall my righteous servant justify many; and he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he poured out his soul unto death, and was numbered with the transgressors: yet he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors." THIS CHAPTER OF ISAIAH IS A DEATH BLOW TO THE MILLENNIUM TEACHING THAT CHRIST WAS TO RESTORE THE KINGDOM TO ISRAEL, BUT BECAUSE THE JEWS REJECTED CHRIST AND PUT HIM TO DEATH, RESTORING ISRAEL AND THE KINGDOM WAS PUT OFF UNTO THE SECOND COMING. It is quoted and applied to Jesus as being fulfilled in Christ by six people in the New Testament.

 By the apostle John in John 12:38

 By the apostle Paul in Romans 10:16

 By the apostle Matthew in Matthew 8:17

 By the apostle Peter in 1 Peter 2:22

 By Philip in Acts 8:32-38

 By Luke in Luke 22:37

 Millennialists tell us that Christ came to establish a temporal kingdom of Israel but did not establish it because He was rejected by the Jews, but He will establish it when He comes a second time. YET, THEY TELL US CHRIST WAS REJECTED BECAUSE HE DID NOT ESTABLISH THE TEMPORAL KINGDOM OF ISRAEL HE CAME TO ESTABLISH, WHICH WAS THE VERY KIND OF KINGDOM THE JEWS WERE LOOKING FOR. Which way was it? It could not be both ways. According to Millennialists, He came to establish the kind of kingdom they were looking for and wanted, but they rejected Him because of it. If He came to establish the kingdom of Israel the Jews were looking for, why did they reject Him? Premillennialists now teach the same error the Jews believed, that the Christ was to set up an earthly kingdom of Jews. If Christ were just a man, as many Millennialists tell us he was, would the kingdom He set up of Jews has lasted any longer then the kingdom David set up? What would have happened to the kingdom after His death? The Jews would have had an earthly kingdom, but what would have happened to each Jew after his or her death? IF THE JEWS HAD NOT REJECTED CHRIST, HE WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN PUT TO DEATH. IF CHRIST HAD NOT BEEN RESURRECTED, THERE WOULD BE NO RESURRECTION FOR ANYONE, NO RESURRECTION FOR JEW OR GENTILE. DID SALVATION AND ETERNAL LIFE COME BECAUSE OF SOMETHING GOD DID NOT FORESEE?

 1 Corinthians 10:3-4: "And did all eat the same spiritual food; and did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drink of a spiritual rock that followed them: AND THE ROCK WAS CHRIST." "The Christ" footnote in American Standard Version. "The Anointed One" in the Christian Bible. Or as most Premillennialists would say, "The Messiah." The point Paul was making is that the Corinthians thought that the relationship they had with God was guaranteed because they believed Christ and He would look out for them, but he points out to them that the Jews had the very same privileges, that Christ was looking out for them, but many of them fell in the wilderness for God was not pleased with them. This clearly shows the preexistence of "the Messiah," and that the Messiah (Christ) accompanied the Jews all through the forty years in the wilderness. "WE MUST NOT PUT CHRIST TO THE TEST, AS SOME OF THEM DID, and were destroyed by serpents" [1 Corinthians 10:9 New Revised Standard Version]. "NOR LET US TEMPT CHRIST, AS SOME OF THEM ALSO TEMPTED" [New King James Version]. Verse 9, "Neither let us tempt Christ."

 Adam Clarke: "Christ: this was the Rock that followed them, and ministered to them; and this view of the subject is rendered more probably by what is said 1 Corinthians 10:9, that they tempted Christ, and were destroyed by serpents...that Christ is intended by the spiritual rock that followed them: and that it was he, not the rock, that did follow or accompany the Israelites in the wilderness. This was the angel of God's presence who was with the Church in the wilderness, to whom our fathers would not obey, as St. Stephen says, Acts 7:38,39...And this affords no mean proof that the person who is called Yehovah in the Old Testament, is called Christ in the New. By tempting Christ is meant disbelieving the providence and goodness of God; and presuming to prescribe to him how he should send them the necessary supplies, and of what kind they should be." Notes on 1 Corinthians 10:1-9.

 Isaiah 6:1-10; John 12:41: "Jesus" in John 12:41 is the "Jehovah" of Isaiah 6:1-10. Albert Barnes says, "In the prophecy, Isaiah is said expressly to have seen JEHOVAH, Ver. 1, and in ver. 5: 'Mine eyes have seen the king, JEHOVAH of hosts.' By his glory is meant the manifestation of him, the shechinah, or visible cloud that was a representation to God, and that rested over the mercy-seat. This was regarded as equivalent to seeing God; and John here expressly applies this to the Lord Jesus Christ. For he is not affirming that the people did not believe in God, but is assigning the reason why they believe not on Jesus Christ as the Messiah. The whole discourse and illustration has respect to the Lord Jesus, and the natural construction of the passage requires us to refer it to him. John affirms that it was the glory of Messiah that Isaiah saw, and yet Isaiah affirms that it was JEHOVAH. And from this, the inference if irresistible that John regarded Jesus as the Jehovah, whom Isaiah saw. The name Jehovah is never in the Scriptures applied to a man, or an angel, or to any creature. It is the peculiar, incommunicable name of God. So great was the reverence of the Jews for that name that they would not even pronounce it. This passage is, therefore, conclusive proof that Christ is equal with the Father." Barnes' Notes on John 12:41. Adam Clarke says, "It appears evident from this passage, that the glory which the prophet saw was the glory of Jehovah; John, therefore, saying here that it was the glory of Jesus, shows that he considered Jesus to be Jehovah."

 Isaiah 11:10: "And it shall come to pass in that day, that the root of Jesse that stands for an ensign of the people, UNTO HIM SHALL THE GENTILES SEEK; and his resting place shall be glorious." Romans 15:12: "And again, Isaiah says, 'There shall be the root of Jesse, and he that arises to rule over the Gentiles; on him shall the Gentiles hope.'" It is now that Isaiah said the Gentiles shall seek Him, therefore, God knew long before about both the rejection of Christ and about the church.

 Isaiah 40:3: "The voice of one that cries, 'Prepare you in the wilderness the way of JEHOVAH; make level in the desert a highway for our GOD.'" In both Matthew 3:3 and Mark 1:3, John the Baptist says this was spoken of Jesus; therefore, JESUS is the JEHOVAH and GOD of Isaiah 40:3.

 Psalms 45:6; Psalms 102 - Hebrews 1:6-12: "And let all the angels of God worship HIM...but of the Son he says 'Your throne, O GOD, is forever and ever.'" Would God commanded the angels to worship someone who was just a man, just a created being, when throughout the Bible we are taught not to worship a man or any created being or thing? THE FACT THAT GOD SAID WORSHIP HIM AND HE IS CALLED "GOD" IN BOTH THE GREEK AND THE HEBREW (PSALMS 45:6) PROVE THAT HE IS NOT A CREATED BEING. But, the writer of Hebrews does not stop. Speaking of Jesus he says, "You Lord, in the beginning did lay the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hand: they shall perish; but you continue: and they all shall wax old a does a garment: and as a mantle shall you roll them up, as a garment, and they shall be changed; but you are the same, and your years shall not fail" (A quotation from Psalms 102:25-27). A clear statement that Christ made everything that has been made, and that He is eternal. PSALMS 102 IS A PRAYER TO GOD. IN IT GOD IS PRAISED (see verse one). It is addressed to Jehovah. "BUT YOU, O JEHOVAH, WILL ABIDE FOREVER; And Your memorial name to all generations" [102:12 American Standard Version]. "For He has looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did JEHOVAH behold the earth" [102:19]. "I said, O MY GOD, take me not away in the midst of my days: your years are throughout all generations. Of old you did lay the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the work of your hands. They shall perish, but you shall endure; Yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a garment shall you change them, and they shall be changed: but you are the same, and your years shall have no end" [Psalms 102:24-27]. The earth came from nothing and will go back to nothing, but God remains the same. We learn from the writer of Hebrews that this is speaking of the Lord Jesus. He is speaking of Jesus the Son of the Father [Hebrews 1:1-14]. In Hebrews 1:10-12 he quotes Psalms 102:25-27 and applied it to Christ. "And You, LORD, in the beginning did lay the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hands: they shall perish; but you continues: and they all shall wax old as does a garment: and as a mantle shall you roll them up, as a garment, and they shall be changed: but you are the same, and your years shall not fail" [Hebrews 1:10-12]. The Hebrew writer takes this prayer, which is a prayer to God and applied it to Christ. If Christ were just a created being, this would be blasphemy.

 Psalms 110 - Matthew 22:43-44: "What think you of the Christ? Whose son is he? They say unto him, the son of David. He said unto them, How then does David in the spirit call him Lord, saying, 'The Lord said unto my Lord, set you on my right hand, till I put your enemies underneath your feet?" The question is how can the Christ be both David's Lord and David's son. They believed the Christ would be born of the seed of David and reign over them. How then could He be David's Lord when He would be born long after the death of David? They could not answer Him. Those that believe Christ did not preexist before His birth must answer the question the Pharisees could not answer; the question that made them not dare ask Him any more questions [Matthew 22:46]. Neither can anyone that believes Christ did not preexist before His birth answer it.

 Isaiah 40:3: "A voice is calling, 'Clear the way for the LORD in the wilderness; make smooth in the desert a highway for our GOD.'" Both Matthew and Mark says this was spoken about John the Baptist who came to prepare the way for Jesus ("a highway for our God") [Matthew 3:3; Mark 1:3].

 Micah 5:2: "From you One will go forth for Me to be ruler in Israel. His goings forth are from long ago, FROM THE DAYS OF ETERNITY" New American Standard Bible. ["Have been from of old, FROM EVERLASTING" King James Version]. Christ existed from eternity, not as Millennialists say, "Only from His birth."

 "THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH"

 "THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH" appeared frequently in the Old Testament, and is called, "angel of Jehovah," "Jehovah," and "God." He possesses characteristics that can only belong to deity, and he accepted worship, which created angels did not [Revelation 22:8-9]. He is called "God" or "Jehovah" a number of times. See Genesis 16:7-13, 22:11-18; 31:13; 48:14; Exodus 3:2-22; [Joshua 5:13-15 and Judges 6:13-24] Judges 2:1-3; Zechariah 3:11; [Genesis 32:30 and Hosea 12:4-5].

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Hagar:

 Genesis 16:7-13 Before the birth of Ishmael. Moses, speaking by inspiration said, "And THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur. And HE said, Hagar, Sarai's handmaid, whence come you? And where do you go? And she said, I am fleeing from the face of my mistress Sarai. And THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH said unto her, return to your mistress, and submit yourself under her hands. And THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH said unto her, I will greatly multiply your seed, that it shall not be numbered for multitude. And THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH said unto her, Behold, you are with child, and shall bear a son; and you shall call his name Ishmael, because JEHOVAH has heard your affliction...And she called the name of JEHOVAH THAT SPOKE UNTO HER, 'YOU ARE A GOD THAT SEES.'" In this passage Moses used three names referring to the same person (1) Jehovah (2) angel of Jehovah (3) God.

 Genesis 21:16-20 After the birth of Ishmael. "Then she went and sat down opposite him, about a bow shot away, for she said, 'Do not let me see the boy die.' And she set opposite him and lifted up her voice and wept. And God heard the lad crying; and THE ANGEL OF GOD called to Hager from heaven, and said to her, 'What is the matter with you Hagar? do not fear, for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is. Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him by the hand; for I will make a great nation of him.'"

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Abraham:

 Genesis 18:1-21 about the birth of Isaac and the destruction of Sodom. It was "The angel of Jehovah" that spoke to Abraham and stopped him from offering his son [Genesis 22:11-18], and it was this same "angel of Jehovah" that said, "You has not withheld your son, your only son, FROM ME." Verse 14 in the Septuagint reads, "And Abraham called the name of that place, The Lord has seen; that they might say today, in the mount the Lord was seen."

 "The angel of Jehovah called to Abraham from heaven, and said, 'BY MYSELF I HAVE SWORN, DECLARES JEHOVAH'" [Genesis 22:16]. THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH called Himself "Jehovah." "By myself have I sworn, says Jehovah." The writer of Hebrews says, "For when God made promise to Abraham, since he could swear by none greater, he swore by himself...Wherein God, being minded to show more abundantly unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed with an oath; that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie" [Hebrews 6:13-18]. The angel of Jehovah calls himself "Jehovah" and the writer of Hebrews calls Him "God."

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Jacob:

 "And, behold, JEHOVAH stood above it, and said, I am Jehovah, the GOD of Abraham...And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar...And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of the city was Luz at the first" [Genesis 28:13-19]. "THE ANGEL OF GOD" SPOKE UNTO JACOB [GENESIS 31:11] AND SAYS "I AM THE GOD OF BETHEL, where you anointed a pillar" [Genesis 31:13]. In Genesis 28:11-17 where Jacob anointed a pillar, it was "JEHOVAH...the GOD of Abraham" that spoke to him. IN GENESIS 48:3 JACOB SAYS THIS "ANGEL OF GOD" THAT APPEARED TO HIM AT LUZ AND BLESSED HIM WAS "GOD ALMIGHTY."

 "Yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed; he wept, and made supplication unto HIM [the angel]: he found HIM [the angel] at Bethel, and there HE [the angel] spoke with us, even JEHOVAH, the GOD of hosts; JEHOVAH is his memorial name" [Hosea 12:4-5] "THE ANGEL" IS CALLED BY THE NAME OF "JEHOVAH" and "THE GOD OF HOSTS."

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Moses:

 "And THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH appeared unto him [Moses] in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush...And when JEHOVAH saw that he turned aside to see, GOD called unto him out of the midst of the bush...put off your shoes from off your feet, for the place whereon you stand is holy ground." [Exodus 3:1-4]. Then in verse 6 the "ANGEL OF JEHOVAH" says, "I am the GOD of your father, the GOD of Abraham, the GOD if Isaac, and the GOD of Jacob." Moses was still speaking to "the ANGEL OF JEHOVAH" but in verse 13 says Moses was speaking to God, "And Moses said unto GOD."

 Moses, still in the same conversation with "THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH," "I will send you unto Pharaoh, that you may bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt" [Exodus 3:10].

 Also, still in the same conversation with "THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH," "And they shall say to me, 'What is his name? What shall I say unto them'? And GOD said unto Moses, 'I AM THAT I AM'; and he said, 'Thus shall you say unto the children of Israel, I AM has sent me unto you...this is my name forever, and this is my memorial unto all generations.'" [Exodus 3:13-15]. Jesus said He is "I AM" [John 8:58]. [See Revelation 1:8; 4:8].

 Stephen said, "AN ANGEL APPEARED TO HIM [MOSES]...IN A FLAME OF FIRE IN A BUSH...THERE CAME A VOICE OF THE LORD, I AM THE GOD OF YOUR FATHERS, THE GOD OF ABRAHAM...him [Moses] has God sent to be both a ruler and a deliverer with the hand of the angel that appeared to him [Moses] in the bush" [Acts 7:30-34].

 "I AM JEHOVAH YOUR GOD, WHO BROUGHT YOU OUT OF THE LAND OF EGYPT" [Exodus 20:2]. "AND THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH...SAID, I MADE YOU TO GO UP OUT OF EGYPT" [JUDGES 2:1]. The three persons in the Godhead are one God. The angel of Jehovah is one of the Godhead, but not the Father. "WHO, EXISTING IN THE FORM OF GOD, COUNTED NOT THE BEING ON AN EQUALITY WITH GOD A THING TO BE GRASPED." [Philippians 2:6].

 Also Exodus 23:20-23

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Joshua:

 "And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood A MAN over against him with his sword drawn in his hand; and Joshua went unto him, and said unto him, Are you for us, or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay; but AS PRINCE OF THE HOST OF JEHOVAH AM I NOW COME. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and did worship, and said unto him, What say my lord unto his servant? And the prince of Jehovah's host said unto Joshua, Put off the shoe from off your foot; for the place whereon you stand is holy. And Joshua did so. Now Jericho was tightly shut up because of the children of Israel: none went out, and none came in. And JEHOVAH said unto Joshua" [Joshua 5:13-15]. He is called (1) a man (2) the prince of Jehovah's host (3) Jehovah. The "angel of Jehovah" and "the prince of the host of Jehovah" said the ground near them was holy. No common angel would say the ground He was standing on was holy. Only one of the Godhead.

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Judah when under the leadership of Joshua:

 "And THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH came up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought you unto the land which I swore unto your fathers; and said, I will never break my covenant with you: and you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; you shall break down their altars. But, you have not hearkened unto my voice: why have you done this? Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you. And it came to pass, when THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH spoke these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept. And they called the name of that place Bochim; and they sacrificed there unto JEHOVAH" [Judges 2:1-5]. THREE POINTS:

 "THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH...said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought you unto the land which I swore unto your fathers" [Judges 2:1]. Exodus 20:2 says, "I AM JEHOVAH YOUR GOD, who brought you out of the land of Egypt."

 "THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH...said... I will never break my covenant with you." In Leviticus 26:44-45 it is JEHOVAH who said He will never break HIS covenant He made with their ancestors.

 THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH said, "I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you." But in Joshua 23:13 it was JEHOVAH that said He would not drive them out and they would be a snare and a thorn to them. The three persons in the Godhead are one God. The "ANGEL OF JEHOVAH" is one of the Godhead, therefore, is God.

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Gideon:

 "And the ANGEL OF JEHOVAH came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained unto Joash the Abiezrite: and his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites. And the ANGEL OF JEHOVAH appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with you, you mighty man of valor. And Gideon said unto him, Oh, my lord, if Jehovah is with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his wondrous works which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah has cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian. And JEHOVAH looked upon him, and said, Go in this your might, and save Israel from the hand of Midian: have not I sent you? And he said unto him, Oh, Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house. And JEHOVAH said unto him, Surely I will be with you, and you shall smite the Midianites as one man. And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you that talks with me. Depart not hence, I pray you, until I come unto you, and bring forth my present, and lay it before you. And he said, I will tarry until you come again. And Gideon went in, and made ready a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it. And the ANGEL OF GOD said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so. Then the ANGEL OF JEHOVAH put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there went up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and the ANGEL OF JEHOVAH departed out of his sight. And Gideon saw that he was the ANGEL OF JEHOVAH; and Gideon said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah! for as much as I have seen the ANGEL OF JEHOVAH face to face. And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto you; fear not: you shall not die. Then Gideon built an altar there unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-shalom: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Abiezrites." [Judges 6:11-24]. In his DVD, "God, And His Messiah" Eddie K. Garrett says when Christ is called "Lord" it is used in the same way we use "Mr." and "Sir," and is not saying Christ is deity. In English "Lord" is used both as a title as we use "Mr." and in speaking of God as being God. In the Hebrew different words are used. The way Gideon changes words shows a progress in how he perceived whom he was speaking to.

 In Judges 6:13 "Lord" is from the Hebrew "assign," which is used of men much as we use "Mr." "And Gideon said unto him Oh, my lord (assign -Mr.)."

 In Judges 6:15 "Lord" is from the Hebrew "Adonai" which is a name for God.

 In Judges 6:22 "Lord" is from the Hebrew "Jehovah." "Then the angel of the Lord vanished from his sight. When Gideon saw that he was the angel of the Lord (Jehovah), he said, 'Alas, O Lord God (Jehovah)! For now I have seen the angel of the Lord (Jehovah) face to face.'" [New American Standard Version].

 The Angel of Jehovah appeared to Muons wife:

 In Judges 13:3 it was "THE ANGEL OF THE LORD" that appeared to her. In Judges 13:9 it was "THE ANGEL OF GOD." In Judges 13:22 Manoah called this angel "GOD." "We shall surely die, for we have seen GOD." Both Manoah and his wife saw the Angel of God and thought they would die for they had seen God.

 The New King James Version capitalized "Angel" in these passages when they considered it to be a "theophany" an appearance of God in a form that can be seen.

 Jesus said, "Before Abraham was born, I AM" [John 8:58]. "The origin and meaning of the name Jehovah are especially brought out in relation to Israel. When Moses at the burning bush says to God: 'Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, and shall say unto them, The Elohim of your fathers has sent me unto you; and they shall say unto me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them?' And the Lord said to Moses, 'I am that I am.' The words could be rendered, 'I will be that I will be,' and often the word is used in that sense, 'I will be with thee.' Its origin is exactly the same as that of Jehovah--being, existence--and certainly denotes the One who will always be: personal, continuous, absolute existence." Nathan J. Stone "Names of God" Page 20. In Exodus 3:13-15 "The angel of Jehovah" says he is "I am that I am." MOST CONSERVATIVE BIBLE SCHOLARS AGREE THAT THE ANGEL OF JEHOVAH THAT IS USED OFTEN IN THE OLD TESTAMENT IS CHRIST.

 There are other passage where the Angel of Jehovah is found, but these are more than enough to show Christ was working throughout the Old Testament. See Judges 13:1-22; Genesis 48:15-16; 32:28; 32;24; Exodus 23:20-21; 32:34; Isaiah 63:8-9. The angel of Jehovah is God, but He is distinguished from God the father, yet they are one God.

 WHO IS TO BE WORSHIPPED?

 THE BIBLE CLEARLY TEACHES THAT IDOLATRY IS A SIN. IT MAY BE THE MOST CONDEMNED SIN IN THE BIBLE. The word of God is clear that only God is to be worshiped. Not other gods, idols, nothing in His creation, images, saints, angels, or Satan [Matthew 4:10]. Yet the Angel of Jehovah accepted worship, which created angels did not [Revelation 22:8-9]. Christ is WORSHIPPED through out the New Testament by many with no rebuked.

 The wise men WORSHIPPED Christ [Matthew 2:2; 2:11].

 A leper WORSHIPPED Christ [Matthew 8:2].

 "There came a certain ruler, and WORSHIPPED Him" [Matthew 9:18].

 "They that were in the boat WORSHIPPED him" [Matthew 14:33].

 His disciples WORSHIPPED Him [Matthew 28:9].

 Worship from a Canaanite woman [Matthew 15:22-28].

 Worship from the mother of the sons of Zebedee [Matthew 20:20].

 "And when they saw Him, they WORSHIPPED Him" [Matthew 28:17].

 The man from the tombs, "But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and WORSHIPPED Him" [Mark 5:6].

 "He was parted from them, and carried up into heaven, and they WORSHIPPED Him" [Luke 24:51].

 The man born blind said, "Lord, I believe. And he WORSHIPED him" [John 9:38].

 Thomas WORSHIPED Jesus [John 20:38].

 "He (God) says, 'And let all the angels of God WORSHIP Him'" [Hebrews 1:6; Psalms 148:2].

 "Worthy is the Lamb that has been slain to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and might and honor, and glory, and blessing. And every created thing which is in the heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and on the sea, and all things are in them, heard I saying, Unto him that sits on the throne, and unto the Lamb, be the blessing, and the honor, and the glory, and the dominion, forever and ever. And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and WORSHIPPED" [Revelation 5:12-14].

 The Bible is clear in it's teaching that only God is to be worshipped [Exodus 34:14; Psalms 81:9; 97:7; Isaiah 42:8; 48:11; Matthew 4:10; Luke 4:8; Revelation 19:10]. Jesus is worshipped. If He is not deity, to worship Him would be a sin and His accepting worship would make Him a sinner. If Millennialists were right when they teach He is not deity, the New Testament must be thrown out for it is a fraud, and Christ must be completely rejected. "Thus says JEHOVAH, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, JEHOVAH of hosts; I am the first, and the last; and besides me there is no God." Isaiah 44:6 is quoted and applied to Christ in Revelation 1:17.

 THE OLD AND NEW COVENANTS

 "Behold, the days come, SAYS JEHOVAH, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah: not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt...But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after these days, SAYS JEHOVAH: I will put my law in their inward parts, and in their heart will I write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people: and they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah: for they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, says Jehovah: for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin will I remember no more"[Jeremiah 31:31-34]. It was Jehovah that said He would take away the first. The writer of Hebrews applied this to Christ. "Then said I. Lo, I am come (In the roll of the book it is written of me) To do your will, O God. Saying above, Sacrifices and offering and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you would not, neither had pleasure therein (the which are offered according to the law), then has HE [Christ] said, Lo, I am come to do your will. HE [Christ] takes away the first, that HE [Christ] may establish the second. By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all"[Hebrews 9:7-18]. It was Christ that took away the first covenant. A man could not take away a covenant made by God. "We have such a high priest,[Christ]...But now has he [Christ] obtained a ministry the more excellent, by so much as HE [Christ] is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted upon better promises. For if the first covenant had been faultless, then would no place have been sought for a second. For finding fault with them, HE [Christ] says, behold, the days come, says the Lord, that I [Christ] will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah; not according to the covenant that I [Christ] made with their fathers in the day that I [Christ] took them by the hand to lead them forth out of the land of Egypt; for they continued not in my covenant, and I [Christ] regarded them not, says the Lord. For this is the covenant that I [Christ] will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord; I [Christ] will put my laws into their mind, and on their heart also will I [Christ] write them: and I [Christ] WILL BE TO THEM A GOD, and they shall be to me a people" [Hebrews 8:1-13]. "For where a testament (covenant) is, there must of necessity be the death of him that made it" [Hebrews 9:16]. It was by His death that the Lord made the covenant we are now under. "Lo, I [Christ] am come to do your will. HE [Christ] takes away the first, that he [Christ] may establish the second. By which will [covenant] we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest indeed stands day by day ministering and offering often times the same sacrifices, the which can never take away sins; but HE [Christ], when HE [Christ] had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God"[Hebrews 10:9-13]. It was Christ (called "Jehovah" in Jeremiah 31:31-34) that took away the first covenant and made a new covenant. No man or angel could have taken the first covenant away, and no man of angel could make a new covenant for us. Jesus and God are one God. "I and the Father are one" [John 10:30]. "That they may be one, even as we are...that they may all be one; even as you, father, are in me, and I in you...that they may be one, even as we are one" [John 17:11-22]. We may not be able to understand the mystery of how one God is made up of three persons, but the Bible clearly teaches that the three are one. Nor can we understand the great mystery of how a husband and wife are one flesh [Ephesians 5:31-32].

 TWO JEHOVAH'S IN ONE VERSE

 "Thus says (first) JEHOVAH, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, (second) JEHOVAH of Hosts; I am the first, and the last; AND BESIDES ME THERE IS NO GOD (first and second Jehovah together)" [Isaiah 44:6]. "And besides me there is no God" is applied to both Jehovah's.

 First Jehovah: "Thus says JEHOVAH, the King of Israel"

 Second Jehovah: "And his Redeemer, JEHOVAH of Hosts"

 First and second Jehovah BOTH together say: "I am the first, and the last; AND BESIDES ME THERE IS NO GOD" The name Jehovah means to be a being that is self-existent, therefore, can be applied to both the Father and the Son, also the Holy Spirit.

 In the New Testament, God the Father calls the Son "God." "But of the Son [Christ] He [God the Farther] says, YOUR THRONE, O GOD [Christ], is for ever and ever" [Hebrews 1:8; Psalms 45:6]. In this passage, God the Father calls Christ "God."

 A FEW PREMILLENNIALISTS MAY BELIEVE IN THE PREEXISTENCE AND DEITY OF CHRIST, BUT THE PREDOMINATE BELIEF AMONG THEM IS THAT HE DID NOT EXIST BEFORE HIS BIRTH. THEY HAVE DENIED THAT CHRIST IS NOW OR EVER HAVE BEEN EQUAL WITH GOD AND DENIED THAT CHRIST HAD ANY PART IN MAKING THE EARTH AND MAN. With them, Satan has won. They have denied Christ.

 If Jesus is not God, all that worship Him are idolaters.

 If Jesus is God, all that say He was just a good man, just the man that was chosen by God over all other man, have they not denied the Christ? Is Premillennial doctrines not Antichrist?

 Any person who worships a man as if He were God, is an idolater and blasphemer

 Any person who denies the Christ is Antichrist [1 John 2:22-23].

 Both are a sin that will bring death to those who believe and teach it? Is there anyway that the one that is such a sinner as either of the two would be to be acceptable to God?

 If one person can believe Christ is God and another person believes Christ to be only a man, a created being, and both are acceptable to God; is there anything that any person can believe and not be acceptable to God; or is there anything that a person does not believe that will make him or her not be acceptable to God?

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 4

 CHRIST AS REVILED IN THE NEW TESTAMENT

 "Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bear a Son, and they shall call His name Immanuel, which translated means, 'God with us'" [Matthew 1:23; Isaiah 7:14; 9:6].

 "And Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, your sins are forgiven. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts, Why does this man thus speak? He blasphemes: who can forgive sins but one, even God?" [Mark 2:5-7].

 "For this cause; therefore, the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only brake the Sabbath, but also called God his own father, making Himself equal with God" [John 5:18].

 "But the man from whom the demons were gone out prayed him that he might be with him: but he sent him away, saying, Return to your house, and declare how great things GOD has done for you. And he went his way, publishing throughout the whole city how great things JESUS had done for him" [Luke 8:28-39].

 "Christ Jesus: who, existing in the form of God, counted not the being on an equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of man; and being found in fashion as a man. And being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross" [Philippians 2:5-8].

 "Looking for the blessed hope and appearing of the glory of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ" [Titus 2:13].

 "But of the Son he says Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever" [Hebrews 1:8].

 "By the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ" [2 Peter 1:1].

 Jesus said unto John, "I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of water of life freely. He that over comes shall inherit these things: and I will be his God, and he shall be my son" [Revelation 21:6-7].

 "And He is the image of the invisible God, the first-born of all creation. For by Him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities; all things have been created by Him and for Him. And He is before all things, and in Him all things hold together" [Colossians 1:15-17]. This passage tells up four things about Jesus.

 JESUS IS ONE WITH THE FATHER. "And He is the image of the invisible God." Also Hebrews 1:3.

 JESUS CREATED ALL THINGS IN THE HEAVENS AND ON EARTH. "For BY HIM ALL THINGS WERE CREATED, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities; ALL THINGS HAVE BEEN CREATED BY HIM AND FOR HIM." "By faith we understand that the worlds have been framed BY THE WORD OF GOD so that what is seen has not been made out of things which appear" [Hebrews 11:3]. Also, Psalms 33:9; 148:5.

 JESUS WAS BEFORE ALL THINGS IN HEAVEN AND ON EARTH. "And He is before all things."

 JESUS UPHOLDS THE UNIVERSE. "In Him all things hold together." Jesus is "upholding all things by the word of his power" [Hebrews 1:3].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 JESUS AS REVILED IN JOHN'S GOSPEL

 THE PERSON WHO CAME FROM GOD AND RETURNED TO GOD

 The theme of John's Gospel is Jesus who is God, was with God before the world was, came from God, made eternal life available to man, and went back to God. One cannot believe this Gospel and believe the view of many Millennialists that Jesus was just a man and did not exist before His birth.

 JESUS THE WORD WAS IN THE BEGINNING WITH GOD - JESUS, THE WORD, WAS GOD- HE MADE ALL THING

 "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and THE WORD WAS GOD. He was in the beginning with God. ALL THINGS COME INTO BEING BY HIM, and apart from Him nothing came into being that came into being" [John 1:1-2].

 "He was in the world, and THE WORLD WAS MADE THROUGH HIM" [John 1:10].

 "And the Word became flesh, and dwelled among us, and we beheld His glory as the only begotten from the Father" [John 1:14].

 1 John 1:1-3.

 "That which was from the beginning,"

 "That which we have heard,"

 "That which we have seen with our eyes,"

 "That which we beheld, and our hands handled, concerning the Word of life (and the life was manifested, and we have seen, and bear witness, and declare unto you the life, the eternal life, WHICH WAS WITH THE FATHER, and was manifested unto us)."

 "That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you also"

 "In the beginning was the Word" [John 1:1].

 "That which was from the beginning" [1 John 1:1].

 EXISTED BEFORE ABRAHAM WAS BORN

 "Jesus said to them, 'Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am'" [John 8:58].

 EQUAL WITH GOD - ONE WITH GOD

 "For this cause, therefore, the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Him, because He not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God His own Father, making Himself equal with God" [John 5:18].

 "I and the Father are one" [John 10:30].

 JESUS IS THE ONLY BEGOTTEN GOD

 "No man has seen God at any time; the only begotten God, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has explained Him" [John 1:18].

 JESUS MADE HIMSELF OUT TO BE GOD

 "The Jews answered Him, 'For a good word we do not stone You, but for blasphemy; and because You, being a man, make Yourself out to be God" [John 10:30-34].

 JESUS HAS LIFE IN HIMSELF

 "For just as the Father his life in Himself, even so, He give to the Son also to have life in Himself" [John 5:26].

 JESUS THE BREAD OF LIFE-THE POWER TO GIVE AND SUSTAIN LIFE AND RAISE THE DEAD

 As bread sustains physical life, believing in Christ sustains eternal life and the person that believes has this bread of life. Christ has the power and will raise him or her from the dead [John 6:47-63]. The water of life [John 4:14]. If Jesus were just a man, He would not have the power to give life or raise the dead.

 JESUS WAS SENT BY GOD FROM HEAVEN - HAS SEEN GOD

 "For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world should be saved through Him" [John 3:17].

 "That the father has sent Me. And the Father who sent Me, He has borne witness of Me" [John 5:36-37].

 "Jesus said to them; 'My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me'" [John 4:34].

 "He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him" [John 5:23].

 "He who hears My word, and believes Him who sent Me, has eternal life" [John 5:24].

 "My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will, but the will of Him who sent Me" [John 5:30].

 "The very works that I do, bear witness of Me, that the Father has sent Me. And the Father who sent Me, He has borne witness of Me" [John 5:36-37].

 "This is the work of God that you believe in Him whom He has sent" [John 6:29].

 "As the living Father sent Me" [John 6:57].

 "Not that any man has seen the Father, except the One who is from God" [John 6:46].

 "And He who sent Me is with Me; He has not left Me alone" [John 8:29].

 "Do you say of Him, whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world" [John 10:36].

 "But the Father Himself who sent Me has given Me commandment" [John 12:49].

 "He who receives Me receives Him who sent Me" [John 13:20].

 "But now I am going to Him who sent Me" [John 16:5].

 "For the words which You gave Me I have given to them; and they received them and truly understood that I came forth for You, and they believed that You did send Me" [John 17:8].

 "As You did send Me into the world" [John 17:18].

 "That the world may believe that You did send Me" [John 17:21].

 "That the world may believe that You did send Me" [John 17"23].

 "And these have known that You did send Me" [John 17:25].

 JESUS CAME DOWN OUT OF HEAVEN - DESCENDED FROM HEAVEN

 "And no one has ascended into heaven, but He who descended from heaven, even the Son of Man" [John 3:13].

 "For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world...The Jews therefore were grumbling about Him, because He said, I am the bread that came down out of heaven'...How does He now say, 'I have come down out of heaven'?...I am the living bread that came down out of heaven" [John 6:32-51].

 "This is the bread which came down out of heaven" [John 6:58].

 "For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world" [John 18:37].

 JESUS ASCENDING BACK TO HEAVEN WHERE HE WAS BEFORE

 "What then if you should behold the Son of Man ascending where He was before" [John 6:62].

 "For the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me, and have believed that I came forth from the Father. I come forth from the Father, and have come into the world; I am leaving the world again, and going to the Father" [John 16:27-28].

 JESUS GOING TO HEAVEN TO PREPARE A PLACE OF US IN HEAVEN

 "In My Father's house are many dwelling places; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also" [John 14:2-3].

 "I go to the Father" [John 14:12].

 "If you loved Me, you would have rejoiced, because I go to the Father" [John 14:28].

 "Jesus knowing that His hour came that He should depart out of this world to the Father" [John 13:1].

 JESUS ONE WITH GOD

 "That they may be one, even as We are" [John 17:11].

 "That they may all be one; even as You, Father, are in Me and I in You" [John 17:21].

 Just as believes are one, but not one person; so also is God and Christ one, but not one person.

 GOD LOVED JESUS BEFORE THE FOUNDATION OF THE WORLD

 "For You did love me before the foundation of the world" [John 17:24].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 JESUS AS REVILED IN HEBREWS

 "God, after He spoke long ago to the fathers in the prophets in many portions and in many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in His Son, whom He appointed heir of all things, through [through Christ] whom also He made the world. And He [Christ] is the radiance of His glory and the exact representation of His nature, and upholds all things by the word of His power...You, Lord, (Jesus) in the beginning did lay the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of Your hands; they will perish, but You remain; and they all will become old as a garment, and as a mantle, You will roll them up; as a garment they will also be changed. But, You are the same, and Your years will not come to an end" [Hebrews 1:1-12].

 It is clear that the writer of Hebrews thought Christ was more than just a man. In Hebrews Christ is:

 Greater than the angels [Hebrews 1:7].

 His throne (kingdom) is forever and ever [Hebrews 1:8].

 Christ made the earth and the heavens [Hebrews 1:10; Psalms 102:25-27].

 The earth and the heavens shall come to an end, but Christ will continue [Hebrews 1:11-12].

 Christ upholds all things by the power of His word [Hebrews 1:3].

 Christ is the very image of God's substance [Hebrews 1:3].

 Brought the power of the devil to nothing by His death [Hebrews 2:4].

 Christ is over His house, and we (the church) are His house [Hebrews 3:6].

 He is our great high priest who has passed through the heavens [Hebrews 4:14].

 He is the author of eternal salvation to all that obeys Him [Hebrews 5:9].

 He is a priest "after the power of an endless life" [Hebrews 7:16].

 He "abides forever" and is able to save them that come to Him [Hebrews 7:25-26].

 He is the mediator of a better covenant [Hebrews 8:6].

 He is high priest of the good thing to come, a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with man's hands, not of this creation (not of this earth) [Hebrews 9:11].

 He entered into Heaven [Hebrews 9:24].

 Through Christ we receive a kingdom that cannot be shaken [Hebrews 12:28].

 "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, and for ever" [Hebrews 13:8].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 5

 THE NATURE OF CHRIST

 WHEN HE "BECAME FLESH, AND DWELLED AMONG US" [John 1:14]

 (1) Jesus Christ, the God who became man

 "WHO, EXISTING IN THE FORM OF GOD, COUNTED NOT THE BEING ON AN EQUALITY WITH GOD A THING TO BE GRASPED, BUT EMPTIED HIMSELF, TAKING THE FORM OF A SERVANT, BEING MADE IN THE LIKENESS OF MAN; (in the image of Adam) and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, becoming obedient even unto death, yea, the death of the cross. Wherefore also God highly exalted him, and gave unto him the name which is above every name; that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, OF THING IN HEAVEN and things on earth and under the earth" [Philippians 2:6-11]. Is there anyone who cannot see that Christ existed with God BEFORE HE EMPTIED HIMSELF, BEFORE HE WAS MADE IN THE LIKENESS OF MAN; THEREFORE, HE EXISTED BEFORE HIS BIRTH. Only those who do not want to see will not see, and nothing could be said that would make those believe who do not want to.

 "For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sake He became poor, that you through His poverty might become rich" [2 Corinthians 8:9]. He was never rich when He was on this earth. See Luke 9:"58. He was rich before He came to earth. He was rich in Heaven before He "emptied himself, taking the form of a servant."

 "AND THE WORD BECAME FLESH, AND DWELLED AMONG US" [John 1:14]

 "Therefore, He had to be made like His brethren in all things, that He might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people" [Hebrews 2:17].

 (2) Jesus Christ, the God who died my death for my sin

 "But now once at the end of the ages he has been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself" [Hebrews 9:26].

 "BUT WE BEHOLD HIM WHO HAS BEEN MADE A LITTLE LOWER THAN THE ANGELS, EVEN JESUS, BECAUSE OF THE SUFFERING OF DEATH, CROWNED WITH GLORY AND HONOR, THAT BY THE GRACE OF GOD HE SHOULD TASTE OF DEATH FOR EVERY MAN. For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings" [Hebrews 2:9-10]. "Since then the children are sharers in flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of the same; that through death he might bring to naught (nothing) him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; and might deliver all them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage" [Hebrews 2:14-15]. When He preexisted equal with God, He could not die. Only by emptying Himself and becoming a man could He die our death for our sins and deliver us from the power of death.

 "For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world should be saved through Him" [John 3:17].

 "BUT, WE DO SEE JESUS, WHO, FOR A LITTLE WHILE WAS MADE LOWER THAN THE ANGELS, NOW CROWNED WITH GLORY AND HONOR because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone" [Hebrews 2:5-8 New Revised Standard Version].

 THE NATURE OF CHRIST NOW AND FOR ALL ETERNITY

 (1) Jesus Christ, the God who lives

 The nature of Jesus now, while He is in Heaven at the right hand of God, and the nature He will have after the judgment is the nature we will have. "WHEN HE APPEARS, WE SHALL BE LIKE HIM, BECAUSE WE SHALL SEE HIS JUST AS HE IS" [1 John 3:2]. Is Jesus now a flesh and blood being in Heaven as He was when He was on earth? Some believe He will be when he comes back and will forever live on earth with a human body. They believe our resurrected body will look like the resurrected body of Jesus before He was received up; that our resurrected body will look just as He looked after His resurrection before He was received up, we will look and have the same kind of body He had, the same body we now have but restored to be like Adam before he ate of the tree. Do they think that Jesus is now an earthly being and eating earthly food while He is in Heaven? But John tells us, no, you will not look as you do now, we know that Jesus looked like a man while He was on earth, but it has not been made known to us what we will be. "Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we shall be. We know that, when He appears, WE SHALL BE LIKE HIM, BECAUSE WE SHALL SEE HIS JUST AS HE IS" [1 John 3:2].

 "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you INTO HEAVEN, will come in just the same way as you have watched Him go INTO HEAVEN" [Acts 1:11]. "And to wait for His Son FROM HEAVEN" [1 Thessalonians 1:10].

 The Christ that descended (from Heaven) is the Christ that ascended (back to Heaven) "When he ASCENDED ON HIGH, (When did He ascend on high - Heaven? Fifty days after His resurrection Acts 1:9-11) he led captivity captive, AND GAVE GIFTS UNTO MEN." What are the gifts He gave unto men and when did He give them? It was the apostles, prophets, evangelists, etc. that He gave to the early church. "He that descended (from Heaven) is the same that ASCENDED FAR ABOVE ALL THE HEAVENS (Probably the sky, far above all the stars. The same one that descended from Heaven is the same one that ascended back "on high" Heaven, which is far above all the stars). And he give some to be apostles; and some, prophets; and some evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; (When did He give these gifts unto man? After He ascended back to Heaven from which He had descended) for the perfecting of the saints, unto the work of ministering, unto the building up of the body of Christ" Ephesians 4:8-16.

 "Even though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now we know him so no more" [2 Corinthians 5:16].

 THE CHRIST JOHN SAW. In Revelation 1:12-18 John sees a vision of Christ. John, who had been with Christ for three and a half years, saw "The Lord of Glory." The glory, the awesomeness of the grandeur was so overpowering that John was so awe struck by His glory that John "fell at His feet as a dead man." John saw Christ in His glory as He is now, not as John had seen Him when He was "like His brethren in all things" [Hebrews 2:17].

 John had seen Him on earth when He was "like His brethren in all things" [Hebrews 2:17].

 John sees a vision of Christ in the grandeur He now has in Heaven [Revelation 1:12-18].

 WHAT KIND OF BODY DOES CHRIST NOW HAVE? "The first man was of earth, formed from dust, the second is from heaven" [1 Corinthians 15:47 The New American Bible].

 "The first man Adam became A LIVING SOUL (psukee)" [1 Corinthians 15:45]. Nehphesh in Old Testament, psukee in New Testament. A living breathing being of this earth.

 Adam was "that which is natural" Verse 46.

 Adam was "of the earth, earthy" Verse 47.

 "As we have borne the image of the earthy" Verse 49 Which is "A natural body" Verse 44.

 "The last Adam became A LIFE-GIVING SPIRIT" [1 Corinthians 15:45].

 Christ is "that which is spiritual" Verse 46.

 Christ is "of heaven" Verse 47.

 "We shall also bear the image of the heavenly" Verse 49 Which is a "spiritual body" Verse 44.

 Ephesians 1:20-23 "Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and made him to sit his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule, and authority, and power, and dominion, and every name that is named."

 A RED WARNING FLAG: In the thousands of web pages and the many books I have read, I have found that most who use "God's Messiah," "God's anointed one," "Yahweh," or some of the other names they use in the place of Christ Jesus most always give Him a lower place than "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in he beginning with God. All things were made through Him; and without Him was not anything made that has been made" [John 1:1-3]. Some make Christ be not much more than a glorified man. Many make Him be a created being, not the creator. A few teach that Satan was at one time God's number one created being, but when he sinned and was cast out of Heaven, Christ took his place. Most make Him be something more than a man as he is now but less than God. THERE ARE SOME WHO USE NAMES LIKE "GOD'S MESSIAH" TO MAKE CHRIST BE LESS THAN HE "WHO, EXISTING IN THE FORM OF GOD, COUNTED NOT THE BEING ON AN EQUALITY WITH GOD A THING TO BE GRASPED" [Philippians 2:6-11]. Much of the writing by Premillennialists writers are unclear and hard to understand, most likely because there are many versions of the Premillennialists doctrines, but if I understand them, many of them do not believe Christ has always existed or that He is equal with God. They seem to be saying that He came into being at His birth and is now only temporary in Heaven, and that when He returns to earth, He will always be on earth with a body of this earth.

 NOTE: "Messiah" is a Biblical name. Christ is the Greek translation of Messiah [John 1:41], but look out when something like "God's anointed one," "Yahweh," or "God's Messiah" is used. This writer believes the Premillennialists belief to be one of, if not the most Antichrist teaching in the world, but their Antichrist teaching is being done in the name of God and in a way that will make many believe they are hearing the truth about Christ; that He is not God, but just a man. Satan does not care if you believe Christ is the greatest man that ever lived and that He is the most chosen man by God, JUST AS LONG AS YOU BELIEVE HE IS JUST A MAN FOR THEN YOU HAVE DENIED THE CHRIST, THEREFORE, YOU BELONG TO SATAN, NOT TO GOD. Those who believe this Antichrist teaching cannot obey the gospel, they have rejected Jesus and made Him into a man. No man could save us from the wages of our sin, death. To deny Christ is to take away all hope of eternal life. If you believe the view of Christ which many Premillennialists have, Satan has won the victory. It does not matter that you believe any other part of the Bible for Satan has won. You will have denied Christ. "But there arose false prophets also among the people, AS AMONG YOU ALSO THERE SHALL BE FALSE TEACHERS, WHO SHALL PRIVILY BRING IN DESTRUCTIVE HERESIES, DENYING EVEN THE MASTER THAT BOUGHT THEM, BRINGING UPON THEMSELVES SWIFT DESTRUCTION" [2 Peter 2:1]. Premillennialists make the Christ that bought them with His blood that they may have life to be only a man.

 Paul often used "Lord" ["Kurios" in the Greek is translated from "Yahweh - Jehovah" in the Hebrew]. In the Old Testament Yahweh - Jehovah was one who had no beginning, one who has always existed.

 "Premillennialism is no barren speculation - useless though true, and innocuous though false. It is a school of Scripture interpretation; in impinges upon and affects some of the most commanding points of the Christian faith; and, when suffered to work its unimpeded way, it stops not till it has pervaded with it own genius the entire system of one's theology, and the whole tone of his spiritual character, constructing, I had almost said, a world of its own...he yet sees things through a medium of his own, and finds every thing instinct with the life which this doctrine has generated with him" David Brown, "Christ's Second Coming" Page 8, 1858.

 PREMILLENNIAL DOCTRINES: FROM GOD OR SATAN? THE PREMILLENNIAL TEACHING ABOUT CHRIST.

 There are divisions in the Millennium beliefs. Most Premillennialists believe it was prophesied that Christ was to set up an earthly kingdom on the throne of David and reign from Jerusalem, but because the Jews rejected Him the establishment of the kingdom was put off unto after His second coming and the church was established instead. They believe the Jews will be restored, and the temple rebuilt and temple worship restored.

 Some Premillennialists believe Christ did not exist unto His birth. Other Premillennialists believe Christ existed equal with God before His birth, but He was raised a man and He is now a man at the right hand of God and will be a man when He returns to rule the earth and will forever be a man.

 Some Premillennialists believe Christ, who they do not call Christ, but "God's Messiah" will rule the earth from Jerusalem on the throne of David, and that the body we now have will live forever on this earth, and some that we will have the same the body that we now have but that it will be changed in such a way that it is not really the body we now have and the earth will not really be the earth that we now live on but a new earth.

 To many, to put this body off and put on a new "spiritual body," and move from the earth that they know, to a place they know nothing about what it is like is a scaring and frightening thing. This version of Premillennialists beliefs say no, you can keep the body you now have but it will be greatly improved. It will not have any of the bad things that many bodies now have, and it will live forever on this earth that you know, but it will be a greatly improved earth. Satan says you can have all this, all you have to do is to believe Christ is just a man, greater than any other man, but still just a man who had no preexistence before His birth.

 YOU CANNOT BELIEVE THE VIEW OF MANY MILLENNIALISTS ON THE PREEXISTENCE AND DEITY OF CHRIST. THEY DENY THAT CHRIST IS NOW OR EVER HAVE BEEN EQUAL WITH GOD. MANY DENY THAT CHRIST HAD ANY PART IN MAKING THE EARTH AND MAN. Not only must the preexistence and deity of Christ be denied, but many versions of Premillennial doctrines are also dependence of the earthly body being raised and existing forever. "Flesh and blood" must inherit the kingdom of God. Though some Premillennialists changes the body and also changes the earth; they say the earthly body that will be resurrected will be changed to such an extent that no one now would know their own body and the earth changed to such an extent that no one would know it to be the same earth, yet they say this body we now have must be raised and live forever in the kingdom of God on this earth. With some, the change of the body or the change of the earth does not seem to be as great as it is with others, BUT IT MUST BE THIS EARTHLY BODY OF FLESH AND BLOOD. WITHOUT IT, THE WHOLE OF PREMILLENNIAL ORDER FALLS. What body we will have in the resurrection is discussed in "Unconditional Immortality Or Resurrection Of The Dead" by William Robert West, ISBN: 0-7414-4620-0.

 What a person thinks about Jesus affects: (1) Whether or not they should worship Him as God, whether they should trust and obey Him. (2) Whether or not a person who does not believe in the divinity of Jesus is a Christian or not a Christian. "What we think about Jesus Christ affects not only questions surrounding the subsistence of the Godhead, but it also delves into entirely relevant issues, such as whether or not one should trust, obey and worship Christ as God, the nature and efficacy of His atoning offices, as well as what constitutes a Church and what are its rites. He who believes in the divinity Jesus Christ is Christian; he who does not, (whatever his profession), is a mere Desist. Without the Divinity, the Bible is, 'the drama of Hamlet, with the part of Hamlet omitted.'"

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 6

 THE NATURE OF MAN

 (1) THE NATURE OF MAN FROM CREATION TO THE RESURRECTION

 The nature of man before the first sin. "The first man Adam became a living soul" [1 Corinthians 15:45]. See my book, "Unconditional Immortality Or Resurrection Of The Dead" by William Robert West. ISBN 0-7414-4620-0 for a discussion on what a "living soul" is.

 The nature of man after Adam's sin.

 The nature of man from birth to death. He now has a "natural body" that is in the image of Adam [1 Corinthians 15:44-49].

 The nature of man from death to the resurrection. Also discussed in the above book and is not the subject of this book.

 (2) THE NATURE OF MAN [THOSE WHO ARE NOT IN CHRIST] AFTER THE JUDGMENT. This is discussed in another chapter of this book on "The Second Death."

 (3) THE NATURE OF MAN [THOSE WHO ARE IN CHRIST] FOR ALL ETERNITY AFTER THE RESURRECTION "For our citizenship is in heaven, from which (from Heaven) also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ; who will transform the body of our humble state (This earthly body of flesh and blood, which "cannot inherit the kingdom of God" will not be an earthly body) into conformity with the body of His glory" (It will be transformed into conformity with the body Jesus now has in Heaven) [Philippians 3:20-21]. Just as we now have the right bodies for this earth, we will have the right bodies for Heaven. The bodies we now have will be transformed to be like His glorious body now is. The resurrected body Christ had for the forty days He was on earth after His resurrection is sometime read into this passage, but it says nothing about Christ in the forty days before His ascension, but Christ now in Heaven where our citizenship is, that we will be transformed from this earthly body, "the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of His glory," the glory Christ now has in Heaven, the glory He had before He became a man, the glory Christ was speaking of in John 17:5 "And now, Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world was."

 One of the favorite questions of those who do not believe the saved will be in Heaven is, "An eternity in heaven doing what?" Turn this question around and it is, "An eternity on earth doing what?" We are not told what we will be doing in Heaven, therefore, cannot know. The God that could make both Heaven and earth will have something for us to do. We may ask, "What are the angles doing and what will they be doing for all eternity?" Heaven is much greater then the earth, therefore, there will be much more to do in Heaven than on earth. Though it is asked often, there is no point to the question. What do they think they are proving by it? This ("An eternity in heaven doing what?") is an argument that is made when the person making it has no scriptural argument. It is an argument made entirely from human wisdom, not from the Bible.

 A NEW BODY, NOT THE SAME BODY THAT WAS PUT INTO THE EARTH AT DEATH, NOT A RENEWED OR RESTORED EARTHLY BODY LIKE ADAM. "But someone will say, 'How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?' You fool! That you sow, you do not sow the body which is to be, but a bare grain, perhaps of wheat or of something else. But, God gives it a body just as He wished...So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown a perishable body, it is raised an imperishable body; it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body" [1 Corinthians 15:35-44]. The body of Adam was a natural body from the day God made him. He had a body made from the earth and for life on earth, not a spiritual body. Now in this lifetime we are like Adam, a natural body made from this earth. We are now in the image of Adam, an earthly being, "a living soul." "If there is a natural body (A body of this earth in the image of Adam), there is also a spiritual body (A body not of this earth, not in the image of Adam before or after he sinned)" [1 Corinthians 15:44]. "So also it is written, 'The first man, Adam, became a living soul.'" (Adam became "a living soul" with his first breath, not after his sin. He was "a living soul" from his first breath unto his last breath. His sin did not change his being "a living soul." "So also it is written" in Genesis 2:7 where "soul" is from "nehphesh" and is used four times in chapter one where it is speaking of animals being living souls before the same word is applied to Adam.) "The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural; then the spiritual. The first man is from the earth, earthy; the second man is from heaven. As is the earthy, so also are those who are earthy; and as is the heavenly, so also are those who are heavenly. And just as we have borne the image of the earthy, (Adam) we shall also bear the image of the heavenly (Christ)." JUST AS WE NOW BEAR THE IMAGE OF ADAM, NOW HAVE A NATURAL BODY (A BODY OF FLESH AND BLOOD), WE SHALL BEAR THE IMAGE OF THE HEAVENLY (CHRIST - A SPIRITUAL BODY). MOST THAT BELIEVE IN ANY OF THE MANY VARIATIONS OF PREMILLENNIAL BELIEFS IS THAT CHRIST WILL HAVE A FLESH AND BLOOD BODY AND THAT HE WILL ESTABLISH THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN ON THIS EARTH AND RULE THE WORLD FROM JERUSALEM. THEY BELIEVE BOTH CHRIST AND ALL THE SAVED WILL BE ON THIS EARTH FOR ALL ETERNITY AND WILL HAVE A FLESH AND BLOOD BODY IN THE IMAGE OF ADAM, WHICH WILL BE RESTORED TO BE LIKE ADAM BEFORE HE SINNED. HOW COULD GOD HAVE SAID ANY CLEARER THAT WE WILL NOT HAVE A NATURAL (EARTHLY, FLESH AND BLOOD) BODY IN THE IMAGE OF ADAM, BUT THAT WE WILL HAVE A SPIRITUAL BODY IN THE IMAGE OF THE HEAVENLY. IF, AS MANY PREMILLENNIALISTS TEACH, CHRIST WILL HAVE THE SAME BODY ADAM HAD BEFORE HE SINNED, WHY WILL THE IMAGE OF ONE (ADAM) THAT WE NOW HAVE, BE CHANGED TO THE IMAGE OF THE OTHER (CHRIST)? HOW CAN THOSE WHO BELIEVE THE PREMILLENNIAL DOCTRINE BELIEVE THIS PASSAGE. Do they "wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their own destruction"? [2 Peter 3:16]. Will Christ say to them, "But in vain do they worship me, teaching as their doctrines the precepts of men"? [Matthew 15:9]. "Now I say this, brethren, THAT FLESH AND BLOOD CANNOT INHERIT THE KINGDOM OF GOD: (Adam was flesh and blood "a living soul" both before and after he sinned. If we were restored to be "a living soul" like Adam before he sinned, we would be flesh and blood and not be able to inherit the kingdom of God if it were on this earth or if it were in Heaven) nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. (This earthly body is the perishable that shall not inherit the imperishable). Behold, I tell you a mystery; we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, (The perishable image of Adam "a living soul" will be changed to the imperishable image of Christ, a "spiritual body") in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed (not restored). For this perishable ("a living soul") must put on the imperishable, and this mortal (another way of saying the same thing that this mortal "a living soul" which is the image of Adam from his first breath to his last, from the day he was created a flesh and blood being, from before he sinned unto his death) must put on immortality" [1 Corinthians 15:45-54]. THIS MORTAL FLESH AND BLOOD PERISHABLE "LIVING BEING" THAT IS THE IMAGE OF ADAM MUST BE CHANGED TO AN IMMORTAL IMPERISHABLE SPIRITUAL BODY IN THE IMAGE OF CHRIST. How could this one passage not be a death blow to the Premillennialists beliefs?

 "HOW ARE THE DEAD RAISED? AND WITH WHAT MANNER OF BODY DO THEY COME?" Six comparisons that shows clearly and beyond any doubt that the resurrection body, the body that will come out of the grave, will be "changed" to a spiritual body and will not be this earthly body which we now have.

 The body (in the image of Adam) is but a bare grain of the body that shall be (the image of the heavenly) [1 Corinthians 15:36-37].

 "It is sown in corruption; (The body that turns back to dust) it is raised in incorruption" [1 Corinthians 15:42].

 "It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in power" [1 Corinthians 15:43].

 "IT IS SOWN A NATURAL BODY (the earthly image of Adam), IT IS RAISED A SPIRITUAL BODY" [1 Corinthians 15:44]. "IF THERE IS A NATURAL BODY, THERE IS ALSO A SPIRITUAL BODY." Two bodies, one a natural body of this earth, a flesh and blood body in the image of Adam that we have now, the other a spiritual body that we will have when we come forth from the grave but we do not now have it. The spiritual body is not the natural body restored to be like Adam was. "AND AS WE HAVE BORNE THE IMAGE OF THE EARTHLY (THE IMAGE OF ADAM) WE SHALL ALSO BEAR THE IMAGE OF THE HEAVENLY." WE WILL NOT HAVE THE SAME KIND OF BODY ADAM HAD BEFORE HE SINNED? Many Premillennialists say we will have a flesh and blood body like the body of Adam before he sinned. PAUL SPEAKS OF TWO BODIES. He says the natural body is put into the ground; the spiritual body is the one body that is raised. THERE IS NO PLACE IN PREMILLENNIAL DOCTRINE FOR TWO BODIES. THEY WORK HARD TO SHOW THAT THE SPIRITUAL BODY IS THE NATURAL BODY THAT ADAM HAD BEFORE HE SINNED. Adam did not have immortality. He was MORTAL. "AND AS WE HAVE BORNE THE IMAGE OF THE EARTHLY" HIS MORTAL IMAGE, AN EARTHLY BODY "WE SHALL ALSO BEAR THE IMAGE OF THE HEAVENLY." A SPIRITUAL BODY "this mortal must put on immortality." Paul says, "We all shall not sleep, but We Shall All Be Changed." Changed from the image of Adam, this earthly mortal body we now bear to a "spiritual body" [1 Corinthians 15:51-52]. John says it this way, "Beloved, now we are children of God, AND IT HAS NOT APPEARED AS YET WHAT WE SHALL BE. WE KNOW THAT, WHEN HE APPEARS, WE SHALL BE LIKE HIM, because we shall see His just as He is" (1 John 3:2).

 NOTE: Premillennialists sometimes try to get around this by saying that all that are in Christ must now be spiritual. It is clear that the "spiritual body" in 1 Corinthians 15:44 is something that this earthly body will be "changed" to at the resurrection, not something that those in Christ have now. No one now has a "spiritual body" no matter how faithful or "spiritual" they are.

 WHICH BODY? Some writers say the saved will have the body that Christ had in the forty days He was on earth after His resurrection. A body that could appear in a room with closed doors and could appear or disappear. A body that they say could eat if the person wanted to like Christ eat the fish, but they would not have to eat if they did not want to. But, the same writer will say in the same book that the saved will have a body like Adam before he sinned. THE TWO BODIES ARE NOT THE SAME. The natural perishable body of flesh is not spiritual unperishable body.

 Premillennialists make the "spiritual body" be the "natural body" improved, but still a "natural body," still in the earthly image of Adam, which is suitable for life on this earth, but not suitable for life in Heaven. "The image of the heavenly" is made to be the same as "the image of the earthly" for they believe both Adam and Christ are men. They believe Christ has been glorified above all other men, but He is still a man in their view, and will be after He returns to earth, and He will forever be only a man on this earth.

 Therefore, the image of both Adam and Christ must both be the same, both Adam and Christ much be made to be the earthly image of Adam.

 Therefore, "spiritual body" and the "natural body" MUST both be made to be the same "natural body," a body of this natural earth.

 Therefore, "The image of the earthly" and "the image of the heavenly" MUST both must be made to be the same earthly image. (In some of their writing they seem to be saying Adam's earthly body was a spiritual earthly body before he sinned but became only an earthly body after he sinned, and the saved will have the spiritual earthly body just as Adam had and live on this earth for eternity. It seems that they believe the "natural body" is the body Adam had after he sinned but not the body Adam had before he sinned, that his body changed).

 "We all shall not sleep, but we shall all be changed" (Changed from the image of Adam, this earthly body we now bear to a "spiritual body" 1 Corinthians 15:51-52). "As we have (now) borne the image of the earthy, we shall (after the resurrection) also bear the image of the heavenly."

 Heaven is one creation, Earth is another and they are not of the same substance. What kind of bodies do angels now have? Are they just thin air nothing or do spirits have bodies with substance? Is God nothing with no body or no substance, just thin air? I think Heaven is a place with substance, most certainly far greater then this earth, and not just a cloud in the sky. No one knows anything about what our spiritual body will be like, but it is not something we now have inside this body of flesh, just waiting to get out at death. It will be a body, not just thin air or some kind of ghost; therefore, it will have substance of some kind, but not flesh [1 John 3:2].

 Most believe Christ is a person and has a body, a spiritual body that has substance, but not like anything on earth; "For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily" [Colossians 2:9] and at the resurrection we shall be like Him. "Beloved, now we are children of God, AND IT HAS NOT APPEARED AS YET WHAT WE SHALL BE. WE KNOW THAT, WHEN HE APPEARS, WE SHALL BE LIKE HIM, BECAUSE WE SHALL SEE HIS JUST AS HE IS" [1 John 3:2]. "God is a spirit" [John 4:24] and Angels are spirits [Hebrews 1:7, 14; 1 Kings 22:21]. God, Christ and Angels now have spiritual bodies with substance, but not anything like any substance on this earth. We will also have a spiritual body, which will have substance (not just thin air) as God and as all the Heavenly being now have; but not as grand as His. We will then have a body that has substance just as they now have, but we do not now have that body, and will not have it at death. We will not have the spiritual body unto the resurrection [1 Corinthians 15]. It will not be the same earthly body in the image of Adam that we now have. Not just a better earthly body.

 MANY MANSIONS IN MY FATHER'S HOUSE "IN MY FATHER'S HOUSE ("Who is in Heaven" Matthew 5:16; 5:45; 5:48; 6:1; 6:9; 7:21; 10:32,3: and many more) ARE MANY MANSIONS...I GO TO PREPARE A PLACE FOR YOU. (Where did Christ go to prepare a place for us? In the mansions in my Father's house in Heaven) For it was not David who ascended into heaven, but himself says: THE LORD SAID TO MY LORD, 'SIT AT MY RIGHT HAND, UNTIL I MAKE YOUR ENEMIES A FOOTSTOOL FOR YOUR FEET'" [Acts 2:34-35]. "AND IF I GO AND PREPARE A PLACE FOR YOU (A PLACE IN MY FATHER'S HOUSE IN HEAVEN), I COME AGAIN, AND WILL RECEIVE YOU UNTO MYSELF; THAT WHERE I AM THERE YOU MAY ALSO BE" (WITH ME IN THE PLACE I GO TO PREPARE FOR YOU IN MY FATHER'S HOUSE IN HEAVEN) [John 14:1-3]. "But now I go unto him (unto my Father who is in Heaven that sent me") "The word (Christ who was with the Father in the beginning and has always been like God, a heavenly being) became flesh, and dwelled among us" (John 1:14) [John 16:5]. He is no longer flesh, but has now gone back to Heaven to prepare a place for the saved and will come back for them. "He who overcomes, I will grant to him to sit down with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne."[Revelation 3:21]. Christ is now on His Father's throne in Heaven where He went to prepare a place of us in His Father's house. I was told by a Premillennialists friend, "Jesus is now in heaven 'drawing up the plans,' to coin a phrase, of the 'new heavens and the new earth' in what has and will be called the 'kingdom of God,' with Messiah as its King. Jesus is right now, along with God his Father, preparing (John 14) the kingdom government complexities and jurisdictions and so on." A person who has a friend that wants to go to school in Tampa says to his friend, "My father has a house with many rooms; I will go and prepare a place for you." Did he mean he as going to his father's house in Tampa and draw up plains for a house and come back and build it for him in New York? Of course not. Everyone would understand that he was going to prepare a place in his father's house, not to draw up plans and come back to earth to build it. My friend is not willing to accept a clear and plain statement for it would make his belief not possible. IT IS CLEAR THAT CHRIST SAID HE WAS GOING TO PREPARE US A PLACE IN HIS FATHER'S HOUSE, NOT THAT HE WAS GOING AWAY TO DRAW UP PLAINS FOR A PLACE ON EARTH FOR US. THIS IS A VERY WEAK TRY TO EVADE THIS PASSAGE.

 THREE CHANGES ARE MADE BY PREMILLENNIALISTS. "In my Father's house ARE many mansions" [John 14:2]. This is present tense. THE MANSIONS WERE IN HIS FATHER'S HOUSE WHEN CHRIST WAS SPEAKING. Christ said IN MY FATHER'S HOUSE there ARE many mansions, not there WILL BE many mansions ON EARTH after Christ comes back and makes them when He makes a kingdom of this earth.

 Premillennialists change from present tense to future tense.

 Premillennialists change from many mansions in His Father's house to a kingdom on this earth.

 Premillennialists change from preparing a place in His father's house to drawing up plains for a house on earth that is not yet built.

 Their reply is that God "Calls those things which are not as though they were? (Romans 4:17), that God calls things which are not yet in existence as though they were already?" It is true, that God does speak of some things as though they now exist. Eternal life is one of them. We will not have eternal life unto after the resurrection, but it is so sure for those who are in Christ that the Bible speaks of it as if the Christian now has eternal life [Compare 1 John 2:25 and 1 John 511-20]. But, it is clearly evident that Christ was not speaking of something that did not exist as though it already existed.

 AN INHERITANCE...RESERVED IN HEAVEN FOR US. "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy begat us again unto a living hope, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, UNTO AN INHERITANCE INCORRUPTIBLE, AND UNDEFILED, AND THAT FADES NOT AWAY, RESERVED IN HEAVEN FOR YOU" [1 Peter 1:3-4]. Where is it reserved? In the place where Christ went to prepare it for us, "in my Father's house," in Heaven. If it is reserved in Heaven, it would do us no good if the saved will live forever on the earth and never get to Heaven. I think Peter knew more about where it is at than anyone does today.

 OUR TREASURES ARE IN HEAVEN. "But lay up for yourselves TREASURES IN HEAVEN, where neither moth nor rust does consume, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" [Matthew 6:20-21]. Where are our treasures and heart to be? In the same place Christ went to prepare us a place and the same place where our inheritance is, in Heaven, not on earth. My Premillennialists friend above also said to me, "'Our citizenship is in heaven' right NOW, but just because it is up in heaven right now doesn't mean that is where we finally go to get it! It is like our retirement is IN THE BANK, but we are not going to retire AT THE BANK, but the money will COME OUT OF THE BANK for us to retire (enjoy) somewhere else." Who would have thought Heaven is a bank? Will our heart also "COME OUT OF THE BANK"?

 OUR CITIZENSHIP IS IN HEAVEN "For OUR CITIZENSHIP IS IN HEAVEN; whence also we wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ: who shall fashion anew the body of our humiliation, that it may be conformed to the body of his glory" [Philippians 3:20-21]. If our citizenship is in Heaven, as long as we are on this earth we are aliens and if we remained on earth we would always be aliens.

 OUR HOPE IS IN HEAVEN "Of the hope laid up for you IN HEAVEN" [Colossians 1:5 New American Standard Version].

 SEEK THE THINGS ABOVE WHERE CHRIST IS "If then you have been raised up with Christ, KEEP SEEKING THE THINGS ABOVE, WHERE CHRIST IS, SEATED AT THE RIGHT HAND OF GOD. Set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on earth. For you have died and you life is hidden with Christ in God. WHEN CHRIST, WHO IS OUR LIFE, IS REVEALED, THEN YOU ALSO WILL BE REVEALED WITH HIM IN GLORY" [Colossians 2:1-4]. Seek the things that are where Christ has gone to prepare a place for us. A restored earth is not the things above where Christ is, not the things Paul said to seek.

 AN ETERNAL BUILDING IN THE HEAVENS. "For our light affliction, which is for the moment, works for us more and more exceedingly an eternal weight of glory; while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; (Is not this earth seen?) but the things, which are not seen, are eternal. For we know that if the earthly house of our tabernacle (Our body) be dissolved (Not our bodies restored), we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens" [2 Corinthians 4:17-5:2].

 Christ went to prepare us a place in His Fathers many mansions [John 14:1-3].

 Our inheritance is reserved in Heaven for us [1 Peter 1:3-4].

 Our treasures are in Heaven [Matthew 6:20-21].

 Our citizenship is in Heaven [Philippians 3:20-21].

 Our hope in Heaven [Colossians 1:5].

 "We have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens" [2 Corinthians 4:17-5:2].

 "Keep seeking the things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God" [Colossians 2:1-4].

 Christ will deliver the kingdom up to God [1 Corinthians 15:24-26].

 Yet, I am told there is not one passage in the Bible that says we will be in Heaven!!! That we live on this earth in a body with flesh and bones. Did not Paul say, "Now this I say, brethren, that FLESH AND BLOOD CANNOT INHERIT THE KINGDOM OF GOD" [1 Corinthians 15:50-54]. "Now this I say, brethren, that FLESH AND BLOOD CANNOT INHERIT THE KINGDOM OF GOD; (Our bodies in the image of Adam made for this earth is not suitable) neither do corruption inherit incorruption (Our bodies in the image of Adam is corruptible and cannot inherit in the heavenly realm). Behold, I tell you a mystery: We all shall not sleep (Shall not die), but we shall all be changed (All that are asleep when Christ comes and all that are alive), in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible (In the heavenly image of Christ, not in the corruptible image of Adam which they had when they died). For this corruptible must put on incorruption, (This earthly body in the image of Adam must put on incorruption, a spiritual body in the image of Christ. Adam never had a spiritual body before or after he ate.), and this mortal must put on immortality (This mortal body which is the body we now have must be changed to an immortal spiritual body which will not be the body of this earth which we now have). But, when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory" [1 Corinthians 15:50-54]. "We that are alive, that are left unto the coming of the Lord, shall in no wise precede them that are fallen asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven (From the place where God is), with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God; and the dead in Christ shall rise first; then we that are alive, that are left, shall together with them be caught up in the clouds (To meet Him in the air and will have a body not of this earth) to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall ever be with the Lord" [1 Thessalonians 4:16-17]. "Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we shall be. We know that, when He appears, we shall be like Him because we shall see His just as He is" [1 John 3:2]. We know what the image of Adam is for we now have it. His image was flush and blood both before and after he sins, and we know that we now have his image, a body of flesh and blood, but we do not now know what the spiritual body in the image of Christ will be like.

 "Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God" [1 Corinthians 15:50]. If, as they teach, the kingdom of God will be the earth restored to be as it were before Adam sinned, Adam was flesh and blood before he sinned, therefore, if he were restored to his sinless state, he would still be flesh and blood and could not "inherit the kingdom of God" If Israel were restored to be like it was in the time of David, the Jews would still be "flesh and blood" and could not inherit the "kingdom of God." They would also still die of old age, not have eternal life, and their Messiah would have been just as human as was David and he would have also lied of old age even if the Jews had not put him to death.

 Some have reversed the Bible.

 The Bible says:

 Man who is in the image of Adam (a flesh and blood body) --- changed to the image of Christ (a spiritual body). Some say to the image of Adam before his sin, but he was an earthly flesh and blood being at that time also, not a spiritual being. Before Adam sinned he said, "This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh" [Genesis 2:23].

 Millennialists say:

 Christ who is in the same image that God is --- changed to the image of Adam to rule over the kingdom on this earth forever. They have Christ who has for all eternity existed with God forever leaving Heaven. Christ who is a heavenly being with God becoming an earthly being. Many say He will forever rule the earth from Jerusalem. What kind of world do they think it would be for mankind if they had spiritual bodies in the image of Christ but living on a physical world with physical animals, plaint, etc.? We do not know what a spiritual body will be like, or a spiritual place (Heaven) that was made for spiritual being will be like, but it is not reasonable to believe the two will be mixed after the resurrection. Many of those who believe the earth will be restored and mankind will not go to Heaven but will forever live on this earth also believe that mankind will be given a second change after death and most of them will believe and be saved. The very few who will not believe will literally be burned up in the literal Gehenna near Jerusalem. If Christ comes soon and most that have lived on this earth for the six thousand years it has been here were alive on it. Where would there be room of all? It would be standing room only. If Christ does not come for ten or twenty thousand more years, we would be standing on top of each other.

 THE EARTH WILL PERISH "You, Lord, in the beginning did lay the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hands; THEY WILL PERISH, BUT YOU WILL REMAIN" [Hebrews 1:10]. "Will perish" does not mean they will be remade to be like before Adam's sin. "Will perish" and "Will remain" are opposite to each other, not the same. The earth will perish, come to an end, but Christ will remain. THE QUESTION IS, HOW COULD CHRIST FOREVER RULE THE CHURCH ON THIS EARTH IF THIS EARTH IS GOING TO PERISH, AND HOW COULD CHRIST AND THE CHURCH REMAIN AFTER THE EARTH HAS PERISHED?

 WILL BE LIKE ANGELS "The sons of this age marry nor are given in marriage, but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age(The age to come. Not all will be worthy to attain to it) and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, not are given in marriage; for neither can they die any more, FOR THEY ARE LIKE ANGELS, (Like the angels, they will have a body suitable for that age. Not earthly being and will no longer have a flesh and body in the image of Adam made for this earth, but a spiritual body in the image of Christ. ANGELS HAVE NEVER HAD AN EARTHLY BODY IN THE IMAGE OF ADAM. WHEN WE ARE LIKE THEM, HOW COULD WE HAVE EARTHLY BODIES WITH FLESH AND BONES?) and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection" [Luke 20:34-36]. That it is spiritual bodies that will be like angels is shown by the fact that they neither marry nor are given in marriage. Adam was made of the earth and had a flesh and blood body and Eve were made from his body before their sin, they never had a spiritual body or bodies like the angels had long before this earth was made. To have a body like Adam before he sinned would be to have a flesh and blood body and be male and female. It would be nothing like the Angels. Both God and angels are spirits [John 4:24, Hebrews 1:14]. God created angels as spiritual being jest as He is, but not equal to Himself.

 A MAN IS "FOR A LITTLE WHILE LOWER THAN THE ANGELS." "What are human beings that you are mindful of them, or mortals, that you care for them? You have made them FOR A LITTLE WHILE lower than the angels; you have crowned them with glory and honor, subjection all things under their feet. Now in subjecting all things to them, God left nothing outside their control. As it is, we do not yet see everything in subjection to them, but we do see Jesus, who, FOR A LITTLE WHILE was made lower than the angels, now crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone" [Hebrews 2:5-8 New Revised Standard Version]. Mankind is now mortal, and we do not now see our self as we will be, immortal, but we do see Christ who was in the beginning with God [John 1:1] and was immortal, who far a little while was made to be a man, mortal and lower than the angels, but we now see Him immortal with the Father who is in Heaven.

 The author of Hebrews says of Christ, who was immortal from all eternity, "Since then the children share in flesh and blood, He Himself likewise also partook of the same, that through death He ...Therefore, He had to be made like His brethren in all things" [Hebrews 2:14-17]. He was lower than the angels "for a short while," but will never be again. He will never again have the earthly image of Adam before or after Adam's sin. We will never have Adam's image after the resurrection.

 "For a little while" American Standard Version, New American Standard Version, Revised Standard Version, New Revised Standard Version, New Living Translation, The New Living Bible.

 "For a short while" Revised English Bible.

 WHERE IS GOD? AT HIS SECOND COMING CHRIST WILL DELIVER THE KINGDOM UP TO GOD. The kingdom, the church to which God adds the saved [Acts 2:47], The church is the body of Christ [Ephesians 1:22]. "For even as we have many members in one body...so we, who are many, are one body in Christ" [Romans 12:4-5]. "Now you are the body of Christ, and severally members thereof" [1 Corinthians 12:27]. The family of God in which all the saved are a member. God the father, Christ the son, those in Christ are the children and heirs of God "But you received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abbe, Father. The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit, that we are children of God: and if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ." "For in Adam all die, so also in Christ SHALL ALL BE MADE ALIVE. But, each in his own order: Christ the first fruits; then they are Christ's AT HIS COMING. THEN COMES THE END (After His second coming) WHEN HE SHALL DELIVER UP THE KINGDOM TO GOD (To God who is in Heaven, not on earth)...FOR HE (Christ) MUST REIGN (In the Kingdom where He is now reigning), TILL HE HAS PUT ALL HIS ENEMIES UNDER HIS FEET. The last enemy that shall be abolished is death" (At His second coming) [1 Corinthians 15:23-26]. Note: In an attempt to prove that the kingdom will not be delivered up to God after the Judgment, but that it will be established on the earth after the coming of Christ some point out that the "UP" is not in some translations and not in some Greek manuscripts. Even without the "UP," there is no way to get around the fact that this passage says the kingdom will be delivered by the Son to God the Father, and I know of no one who does not believe the Father is in Heaven, not on earth. Not delivered by the Son to earth from God, but delivered (up) by the Son from earth to the Father who is in Heaven. It does not say the kingdom will be established on the earth after the Judgment. Which way is up? Which way is Heaven from the Earth? Up is used in this passage in the same way as, "I give up," or "Deliver up the goods." Not as a direction. Christ will at a time yet to come deliver the kingdom to God who is in Heaven.

 "When he shall deliver the kingdom to God"-- not-- "When he shall deliver the kingdom down from God to earth."

 WE NOW BEAR THE IMAGE OF THE EARTHLY - WE SHALL BEAR THE IMAGE OF THE HEAVENLY. "And just as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly" (Not the flesh and blood image of Adam before or after he sinned, not an earthly body, not a body of dust) [1 Corinthians 15:48].

 2 Corinthians 4:16-18; 5:1

 "For our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ; who WILL transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of His glory" [Philippians 3:20-21].

 "For we know that if the earthly house of our tabernacle BE DISSOLVED, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens" [2 Corinthians 5:1 American Standard Version]. "For we know that if the earthly tent we live in IS DESTROYED" [New Revised Standard Version]. Could it be said any clearer that our earthly bodies will be dissolved just as "the elements shall BE DISSOLVED with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are there in shall be burned up" [2 Peter 3:10].

 ONE BODY PUT OFF: "THE EARTHLY HOUSE OF OUR TABERNACLE BE DISSOLVED."

 ANOTHER BODY PUT ON: "A building from God, a house not made with hands."

 "Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; neither does corruption inherit incorruption" [1 Corinthians 15:50]. "How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?...You sow not the body that shall be" [1 Corinthians 15:35-44].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 7

 WAS THE DEATH AND RESURRECTION OF CHRIST FOREKNOWN BY GOD?

 IS THE KINGDOM TO BE SET UP IN THE FUTURE

 OR

 HAS IT EXISTED FROM THE DAY OF PENTECOST?

 MILLENNIALISTS TELL US THAT THE REJECTION OF CHRIST BY THE JEWS WAS NOT FOREKNOWN ABOUT BY GOD, THEREFORE WAS NOT KNOWN ABOUT BY THE PROPHETS IN THE OLD TESTAMENT; THAT IT WAS A SURPRISE TO GOD. THAT GOD PLANNED TO RESTORE ISRAEL AND CHRIST WAS TO RULE THE WORLD ON THE THRONE OF DAVID IN JERUSALEM, BUT BECAUSE OF THE UNEXPECTED REJECTION OF CHRIST THE CHURCH WAS SET UP AS A SUBSTITUTION UNTO THE MILLENNIUM. IN THE PREMILLENNIAL THEORY THERE IS NOWHERE FOR THE DEATH AND CRUCIFIXION OF CHRIST FOR IF THE KINGDOM HAS BEEN RESTORED TO ISRAEL AS THEY SAY GOD PLANNED IT TO BE, THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN NO DEATH AND NO RESURRECTION OF CHRIST. ACCORDING TO THEM WE ARE NOW IN THE CHURCH AGE OR "GAP" THAT WAS UNKNOWN ABOUT BY GOD BEFORE THE DEATH OF CHRIST. IF IT CAN BE CLEARLY SHOWN THAT [1] THE DEATH. THE RESURRECTION AND ASCENSION OF CHRIST WERE REPEATEDLY TOLD ABOUT IN THE OLD TESTAMENT [2] THE NEW COVENANT AND CHURCH WAS KNOWN ABOUT BY GOD [3] THAT CHRIST IS NOW KING ON THE THRONE OF DAVID, THEN THE PREMILLENNIAL DOCTRINE IS FALSE.

 MANY DETAILS OF THE DEATH OF CHRIST FORETOLD IN THE OLD TESTAMENT

 Isaiah 53 gives such a detailed description of the trail and death of Christ that it could be an eye witnesses account and yet many Premillennialists tell us God was surprised by the rejection of Christ and that it was not known about by the Old Testament prophets.

 Verse 2: He has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon Him, nor appearance that we should be attracted to Him.

 Verse 3: HE WAS DESPISED AND FORSAKEN OF MEN, A MAN of sorrows and acquainted with grief.

 Verse 4: Our grief's He Himself bore, and our sorrows He carried; Yet we ourselves esteemed Him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.

 Verse 5: BUT HE WAS PIERCED THROUGH FOR OUR TRANSGRESSIONS, HE WAS CRUSHED FOR OUR INIQUITIES.

 Verse 7: HE WAS OPPRESSED, AND HE WAS AFFLICTED, YET HE DID NOT OPEN HIS MOUTH; LIKE A LAMB THAT IS LED TO SLAUGHTER, AND LIKE A SHEEP THAT IS SILENT BEFORE ITS SHEARERS, SO HE DID NOT OPEN HIS MOUTH. BY OPPRESSION AND JUDGMENT HE WAS TAKEN AWAY; AND AS FOR HIS GENERATION, WHO CONSIDERED THAT HE WAS CUT OFF OUT OF THE LAND OF THE LIVING FOR THE TRANSGRESSION OF MY PEOPLE, TO WHOM THE STROKE WAS DUE?

 Verse 9: HIS GRAVE WAS ASSIGNED WITH WICKED MEN, YET HE WAS WITH A RICH MAN IN HIS DEATH.

 Verse 9-10: Because He had done no violence, Nor was there any deceit in His mouth. But the LORD was pleased to crush Him, putting Him to grief.

 Verse 11: My Servant, will justify the many, as He will bear their iniquities... BECAUSE HE POURED OUT HIMSELF TO DEATH, AND WAS NUMBERED WITH THE TRANSGRESSORS; Yet He Himself bore the sin of many, And interceded for the transgressors.

 ISAIAH FORETOLD THE DEATH OF CHRIST, WHICH MAKES THE MILLENNIUM THEORY AN IMPOSSIBILITY. THEIR THEORY IS THAT CHRIST CAME TO SET UP AN EARTHLY KINGDOM OVER ISRAEL, BUT THAT GOD DID NOT KNOW ISRAEL WOULD REJECT CHRIST, IT CAME AS A SURPRISE TO GOD BUT BECAUSE CHRIST WAS REJECTED BY THE JEWS THE CHURCH WAS SET UP ONLY AS A SUBSTITUTE UNTO CHRIST COMES BACK AND SETS UP THE KINGDOM. THE JEWS MADE GOD PLAN NOT WORK BY REJECTING CHRIST AND PUTTING HIM TO DEATH AND GOD DID NOT EVEN KNOW THEY WERE GOING TO. THEREFORE, ACCORDING TO MANY PREMILLENNIALISTS, THE DEATH OF CHRIST COULD NOT HAVE BEEN KNOWN ABOUT OR TOLD ABOUT IN THE OLD TESTAMENT FOR GOD WOULD NOT HAVE KNOWN ISRAEL WOULD REJECT CHRIST AS THEIR KING AND WOULD NOT HAVE KNOWN HE WAS GOING TO SET UP THE CHURCH IN THE PLACE OF THE KINGDOM. The church could not have been told about in the Old Testament because at that time God did not know He would have to set up the church as a substitute.

 Some of the things foretold that, according to some Premillennialists, God did not know about.

 Christ would die [Psalms 16:8-10 - Acts 2:25-28].

 Christ would be betrayed [Psalms 41:9 - John 13:18].

 How much was to be paid [Zephariah 11:18]

 And what was to be done with the money [Zechariah 11:23 - Matthew 27:1-11].

 Christ would be smitten [Zechariah 13:7 - Matthew 26:31 - Mark 14:27]

 And pierced [Zechariah 12:10],

 But no bone broke [Psalms 13:7 - John 19:26].

 "BUT THE THINGS WHICH GOD FORESHOWED BY THE MOUTH OF ALL THE PROPHETS, THAT HIS CHRIST SHOULD SUFFER, HE HAS FULFILLED" [Acts 3:23].

 Peter says Christ being delivered up by the Jews was "BY THE DETERMINATE COUNSEL AND FOREKNOWLEDGE OF GOD" [Acts 2:23]. Then how could it be a surprise to God?

 "The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief corner stone" Psalms 118:22, Matthew 21:33-46.

 After his death and resurrection, Christ said, "And he said unto them, These are my words which I spoke unto you, while I was yet with you, that ALL THINGS MUST NEEDS BE FULFILLED WHICH ARE WRITTEN IN THE LAW OF MOSES, AND THE PROPHETS, AND THE PSALMS, CONCERNING ME. Then opened he their mind, that they might understand the scriptures; and he said unto them, THUS, IT IS WRITTEN, THAT THE CHRIST SHOULD SUFFER AND RISE AGAIN FROM THE DEAD THE THIRD DAY; and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name UNTO ALL THE NATION, BEGINNING FROM JERUSALEM" [Luke 24:44-47]. NOTHING IS SAID IN THE LAW OF MOSES, THE PROPHETS, OR THE PSALMS ABOUT CHRIST SETTING UP AN EARTHLY KINGDOM IN JERUSALEM WHERE HE WOULD RULE THE JEWS UNDER THE LAW OF MOSES. It is undeniable that if God planned to set up an earthly kingdom, which was written in the law and the prophets, and the psalms, as the Millennialists tell us it was, "ALL THINGS" which were written were not fulfilled. They have Christ saying they were when they were not; that God planned on restoring the kingdom to Israel but it was not restored. If God had not planed on the rejection of Christ, it would not have been written "that the Christ should suffer and rise again from the dead the third day; and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name unto all the nation, beginning from Jerusalem."

 "But though He had performed so many signs before them, yet they were not believing in Him; that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke, 'LORD, WHO HAS BELIEVED OUR REPORT? AND TO WHOM HAS THE ARM OF THE LORD BEEN REVEALED?'" [John 12:37-38].

 Paul said, "I stand unto this day testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses did say should come; how that the Christ must suffer, and how that he first by the resurrection of the dead should proclaim light both to the people and to the Gentiles" [Acts 26:22]. If His rejection were a surprise to God, why did Paul say the prophets and Moses know "how that the Christ must suffer"?

 Moses and the prophet know:

 How Christ must suffer.

 That Christ would be resurrected from the dead (If He had been made King as the Premillennialists say God planned, He would not have been dead, therefore, not resurrected from the dead).

 That Christ would proclaim light to both the Jews and the Gentiles.

 "Concerning which salvation the prophets sought and searched diligently, WHO PROPHESIED OF THE GRACE THAT SHOULD COME UNTO YOU: searching what time or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did point unto, when it TESTIFIED BEFOREHAND THE SUFFERINGS OF CHRIST, and the glories that should follow them. To whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto you, did they minister these things, which now have been announced unto you through them that preached the gospel unto you by the Holy Spirit sent forth from heaven; which things angels desire to look into" [1 Peter 12:9-10]. It would be strange if the prophets would have prophesied of the grace that came unto us if they wanted to look into a time that they know nothing of, and that it was just set up as a substitution by God because He failed to set up the kingdom that the prophets did know of. How could they have prophesied of this grace that the Millennialists tell us that even God did not know about it when the prophets were prophesying?

 THE NEW COVENANT FORETOLD IN THE OLD TESTAMENT. "Behold, the days come, says the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Judah; not according to the covenant that I make with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them forth out of the land of Egypt; for they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, says the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind, and on their heart also will I write them: and I will be to them a God and they shall be to me a people: and they shall not teach every man his fellow-citizen, and every man his brother, saying, know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their iniquities, and their sins will I remember no more" [Jeremiah 31:31-34 as quoted in Hebrews 8:8-13]. The theme of Hebrews is a comparison of the old and new covenants showing that the new is better then the old. In Hebrews 8:6-8, "A better covenant" "a second" and "a new covenant" are used interchangeable. "But now has he obtained a ministry the more excellent, by so much as he is also the mediator of A BETTER COVENANT, which has been enacted upon better promises. For if that FIRST COVENANT had been faultless, then would no place have been sought or A SECOND. For finding fault with them, he says, behold, the days come, say the Lord, that I will make A NEW COVENANT with the house of Israel."

 "And to Jesus the mediator of A NEW COVENANT" [Hebrews 12:24].

 "He takes away THE FIRST, that he may establish THE SECOND" [Hebrews 10:9].

 "And for this cause he is the mediator of A NEW COVENANT, that a death having taken place for the redemption of the transgressions that were under THE FIRST COVENANT, they that have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance" [Hebrews 9:15].

 "But through his own blood, entered in once for all into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption" [Hebrews 9:12]. "Apart from shedding of blood there is no remission...but now once AT THE END OF THE AGES has he been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself" [Hebrews 9:22-26]. There is not a Millennium age after this age. "For this is my blood OF THE COVENANT, which is poured out for many unto remission of sins" [Matthew 26:28].

 JOHN THE BAPTIST Malachi 3:1-Matthew 11:10 "This is he, of whom it is written, behold, I send my messenger before your face, who shall prepare your way before you." Also Malachi 4:5, Matthew 11:14; 17:10-13.

 REJECTION AND DEATH OF CHRIST

 WERE DEFINITELY NOT A SURPRISE TO GOD

 According to most Millennialists, God was going to restore the throne of David and Christ was to rule on it, but because the Jews rejected Christ, the church, which was not foreseen or planned by God, was set up to fill in the "gap" in the 70th week. The rejection of Christ was known about by God. It was not a surprise to Him. The "gap" theory is pure fictions. HOW CAN ANYONE READ ACTS 2:23 AND SAY GOD DID NOT KNOW THE JEWS WERE GOING TO REJECT CHRIST, AND GOD DID NOT KNOW THAT CHRIST WOULD BE PUT TO DEATH BY THEM?

 "Him, being delivered up by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God" [American Standard Version, New King James Version].

 "This Man, delivered up by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God" [New American Standard Version].

 "This Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God" [Revised Standard Version].

 "This man, handed over to you according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God" [New Revised Standard Version].

 "This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge" [New International Version].

 "By the deliberate will and plan of God he was given into your power, and you killed him" [Revised English Bible].

 "This Jesus, when delivered up according to the definite and fixed purpose and settled plan and foreknowledge of God" [The Amplified Bible].

 "But God, following his prearranged plan, let you use the Roman government to nail him to the cross" [The Living Bible].

 "Jesus was given to you, and with the help of those who didn't know the law, you put him to death by nailing him to a cross. But this was God's plan which he had made long ago" [New Century Version].

 "This One, with God's previously designated counsel and foreknowledge, who was delivered over by means of the hands of those who were lawless, you nailed up and did away with" [The Christian Bible].

 "This man, who was put into your power by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God" [Phillips New Testament In Modern English].

 "Him you have apprehended, being given up by the declared counsel and foreknowledge of God" [The Living Oracles].

 "The one who was delivered up by God's decision and foreknowledge" [McCord's New Testament Translation].

 "You killed this man Jesus by handing him over to lawless men. They nailed him to a cross. But God knew ahead of time that all this would occur; it was part of His plan which He made long ago" [The Simple English Bible].

 "He was delivered up by the set purpose and plan of God" [New American Bible].

 "When he had been given up to you, by the deliberate will and plan of God" [New English Bible].

 "This man, who was put into your power by the deliberate intention and foreknowledge of God, you took and had crucified" [Jerusalem Bible].

 "God, in his own will and knowledge, had already decided that Jesus would be handed over to you; and you killed him" [Today's English Version].

 "This Man, delivered up by the appointed will and foreknowledge of God" [The New Covenant Scriptures].

 "God had already planned and decided that Jesus would be handed over to you" [Contemporary English Version].

 "This Jesus, following the deliberate and well-thought-out plan of God" [The Message].

 "But you followed God's prearranged plan" [New Living Translation].

 "God definitely planned and intended to have Him betrayed, and so you had wicked men nail Him to a cross, and you killed Him" [Beck].

 "This very Jesus, I say after He was betrayed, in accordance with the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God" [Williams].

 If God had not known about the rejection and death of Christ, God or no one could not have known about the resurrection of Christ. David did know that Christ would be in the grave and be resurrected out of it TO SET ON HIS THRONE AFTER THE DEATH AND RESURRECTION OF THE CHRIST. Acts 2:31:

 "He, foreseeing this, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ" [New King James Version].

 "He foresaw and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption" [Revised Standard Version].

 "He looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection to the Christ, that He was nether abandoned to Hades, now did His flesh suffer decay" [New American Standard Bible].

 "Seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay" [New International Version].

 "David knew this would happen, and so he told us that Christ would be raised to life. He said that God would not leave him in the grave or let his body decay" [Contemporary English Version].

 Millennialists MUST change this. Their theory is that God did not know of the rejection and death of Christ and because of it; He had to postpone setting up the kingdom with Christ on David's throne and set up the church as a substitution. According to them, we are now in the "gap" that God or the prophets did not know about.

 CHRIST IS NOW ON DAVID'S THRONE WHILE DAVID IS ASLEEP AND CHRIST IS IN HEAVEN. When Peter preached on the day of Pentecost, Christ had ascended to Heaven and Peter's message to them was that Christ was at that time setting of the throne of David when David was in the grave and Christ was in Heaven [Acts 2:1-36].

 Summary: THE PREMILLENNIALISTS GOSPEL.

 CHRIST DID NOT EXIST BEFORE HIS BIRTH. HE HAD NO PART IN MAKING THE EARTH OR US.

 CHRIST WOULD NOT HAVE SHED HIS BLOOD.

 THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN NO RESURRECTION.

 NO NEW COVENANT BOUGHT WITH THE BLOOD OF CHRIST.

 THE REJECTION AND DEATH OF CHRIST WERE A SURPRISE TO GOD.

 NO ONE, NOT GOD OR THE JEWS KNOW ABOUT THE REJECTION OF CHRIST, OR KNOW CHRIST WOULD SAVE FROM SIN BY HIS DEATH AND RESURRECTION.

 CHRIST WOULD NOT HAVE DIED IN OUR PLACE. HE WOULD NOT HAVE SHED HIS BLOOD FOR US. PREMILLENNIALISTS TEACHING WOULD MAKE SALVATION NOT POSSIBLE FOR ANYONE.

 NO "CHURCH OF THE LORD WHICH HE PURCHASED WITH HIS OWN BLOOD" [Acts 20:28]. There would have been no rejection, no death, no blood; therefore, no church.

 GOD HAS TWO KINGDOMS. THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN IS NOT THE KINGDOM OF GOD.

 According to some Millennialists one is an eternal kingdon of Jews on earth, according to some it will be only a thousand year kingdom on earth.

 The other kingdom is an eternal kingdom of Gentiles which is now on earth but will be in Heaven after the coming of Christ.

 "But even though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you a gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed" [Galatians 1:8].

 Luke 24:46: "IT IS WRITTEN, that the Christ should suffer, and rise again from the dead the third day." If God or none of the prophets knew about the death of Christ, who wrote of it and where? Also, Matthew 16:21; 17:23; 20:19; Mark 9:31; 10:34; Luke 9:22; 18:33; 24:7. DOES THIS SOUND LIKE GOD WAS SURPRISED BY THE REJECTION OF CHRIST? HOW COULD HIS DEATH AND RESURRECTION HAVE BEEN PROPHESIED IN SUCH DETAIL IF HIS REJECTION WERE A SURPRISE TO GOD? If Christ had become king and sit on David's throne, as the Premillennialists teach, the Jews would not have put Him to death, He would not have shed His blood, PREMILLENNIALISTS TEACHING WOULD MAKE SALVATION NOT POSSIBLE FOR ANYONE. IF CHRIST HAD NOT BEEN REJECTED AND CRUCIFIED BY THE JEWS, BUT HE HAD SET UP A JEWISH KINGDOM AT THAT TIME, AS MILLENNIALISTS TELL US IT WAS THE PLAN OF GOD TO RESTORE ISRAEL AT THAT TIME, BUT THE JEWS OVERRULED GOD IN HIS ATTEMPT TO SET UP AN EARTHLY KINGDOM OF JEWS. THE REJECTION AND DEATH OF CHRIST WERE NOT A SURPRISE TO GOD, IT WAS SOMETHING HE PLANNED BEFORE HE MADE THE EARTH. IT WAS NEVER PLANNED FOR CHRIST TO SET UP AN EARTHLY KINGDOM OF JEWS WITHOUT DYING.

 -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 8

 KINGDOM OF HEAVEN OR KINGDOM OF GOD?

 Dispensationalists teach the Kingdom of God, and the Kingdom of Heaven are entirely different kingdoms. They believe the Kingdom of Heaven was to be the Old Testament kingdom of David restored, but was postponed to the Millennium after the Jews rejected Christ as their king. That the two are synonymous is proved by the interchangeable use in parallel passages in the Gospels.

 Matthew used "kingdom of Heaven," "kingdom of God," and "My Father's kingdom," but Mark, Luke, John and the rest of the New Testament used "kingdom of God." Millennialists make a distinction in the kingdom of Heaven and the kingdom of God.

 "Kingdom of Heaven is at hand" [Matthew 3:2; 4:17; 10:7].

 "Kingdom of God is at hand" [Mark 1:5].

 The Lord's Supper is in "My Father's kingdom" [Matthew 26:29]. In "the kingdom of God" [Mark 14:25]. In the kingdom of Christ, the kingdom the Father granted to Christ [Luke 29-30]. It is in the church which is His kingdom [1 Corinthians 11:21-22]. It is eaten on the first day of the week in the assembly of the church [Acts 20:7].

 The new birth puts one in the kingdom [John 3:5]. If there is no kingdom now, there is no new birth. If there is a new birth now, there is a kingdom now. "But when they believed Philip preaching the THING CONCERNING THE KINGDOM OF GOD, and the name of Jesus Christ, THEY WERE BAPTIZED" [Acts 8:12]. The new birth, being born of the water and the spirit, now puts a person in the kingdom/church.

 Many Millennialists teach that Christ first planned to set up the kingdom of God but later when He saw He was being rejected by the Jews set up the kingdom of God as a substitute unto He came a second time to set up the kingdom of Heaven; they overlook the fact that Mark used "kingdom of God" in the very beginning of his Gospel [Mark 1:14] as did Luke and John [Luke 4:43; John 3:3]. They did not use "kingdom of God" and later change to "kingdom of Heaven" after Christ saw that He would not be able to set up the kingdom of God.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 9

 WAS THE CHURCH PLANNED BY GOD OR JUST AN AFTERTHOUGHT?

 "To the intent that now unto the principalities and the powers in the heavenly places might be made known through the church the manifold wisdom of God, ACCORDING TO THE ETERNAL PURPOSE WHICH HE PURPOSED IN CHRIST JESUS OUR LORD" [Ephesians 3:10-11]. The church which was purchased with the blood of Jesus [Acts 20:28] was in the plan of God from the beginning. If the church were only an afterthought and not known about in the Old Testament, how is it "according to the eternal purpose which He (God) purposed in Christ Jesus"? Was Paul wrong? Millennialists say yes, Paul was wrong, the church is only an afterthought and was not in the eternal purpose of God.

 The Scofield Bible says "The Church, corporately, is not in the vision of the O. T. prophet." Premillennialists teach that the Old Testament prophecies of the kingdom say a literal Kingdom will someday be set up in Jerusalem, but the New Testament applied the kingdom prophecies to the Church [Acts 15: 12-17 - Amos 9:11-12; Ephesians 2:10-22; John 20:10-21; Mark 14:58; 2 Corinthians 6:16- Ezekiel 37:27; Matthew 16:18 - Zechariah 6:12-13; 1 Corinthians 3:11; 3:16-16; Ephesians 2:20]. In the New Testament the terms temple, Mount Zion, the Israel of God and the New Jerusalem are applied to the church.

 When preaching the first sermon after the resurrection of Christ, Peter says, "This is that which has been spoken through the prophet Joel" [Acts 2:16]. "Yes, and all the prophets from Samuel and them that followed after, as many as have spoken, they also told of these days" [Acts 3:24].

 Peter says all the prophets from Samuel onward told of these days.

 Millennialists say none of the prophets, not even God, knew or told of these days.

 Who do you believe?

 THE CHURCH KNOWN ABOUT AND FORETOLD IN THE OLD TESTAMENT

 Premillennialists tell us that God planed to set up the kingdom when Christ was on earth, but because of His rejection by the Jews, the kingdom was put off and the church, which was unseen by the prophecy of the Old Testament, was a substitution unto Christ comes a second time and sets up the kingdom. If they were right, the church was not "in accordance with the eternal purpose which He carried out in Christ Jesus our Lord." WHY DID PAUL SAY IT WAS? "To bring to light what is the administration of the mystery which for ages has been hidden in God, who created all things; in order that the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known through the church to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. This was in accordance with the eternal purpose which He carried out in Christ Jesus our Lord" [Ephesians 3:9-11]. Is there anyway God could have said any plainer that the church was not just an afterthought; that the church was not just an accident that came about because God was unable to foresee that the Jews were going to reject Christ?

 "The Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood" [Acts 20:28]. If it had been as the Millennialists say God planed it to be, Christ would not have been put to death, He would not have purchased the church with His blood, He would not have died our death, and we would still have our sins. How do they think we could be saved if the Jews had not put Christ to death? ACCORDING TO MILLENNIALISTS, GOD PLANNED TO RESTORE THE KINGDOM TO ISRAEL AND SALVATION COMING TO US GENTILES WOULD NOT HAVE HAPPENED. IF THE CHURCH WERE ESTABLISHED AS A SUBSTITUTION UNTO THE KINGDOM IS RESTORED TO ISRAEL, IT COULD NOT BE ACCORDING TO THE ETERNAL PURPOSE OF GOD.

 The New Testament shows the church was prophesied of in the Old Testament.

 Premillennialists say the church age was an afterthought after the establishment of the kingdom was postponed because the Jews rejected Christ as their king, and the Old Testament did not prophesy of the Church.

 Both cannot be right. Do you believe the New Testament or Premillennialists?

 Their view is the kingdom, which was prophesied in the Old Testament, was not established as the prophets said it would be. Therefore, the prophets were wrong. The prophets spoke what God reviled to them. Would not this make God be not all knowing? If God were wrong in the many kingdom prophesies how do we know He was not wrong in many others?

 IF BOTH GOD AND CHRIST HAD NOT FAILED

 IF ISRAEL HAD NOT REJECTED AND KILLED CHRIST

 John Darby, the founder of the modern Premillennial doctrine says, "Supposing for a moment that Christ has not been rejected, the kingdom would have been set upon earth."

 According to him:

 As taught by Millennialists, the kingdom being restored was only for Israel, the Gentiles would never have had the blessings that came to them through the death and resurrection of Christ.

 If Christ had set up the earthly kingdom the Jews were looking for, He would never have been put to death and whatever the Jews had would have had would have been without the blood of Christ; it would have lasted for each Jew only for his or her lifetime. The Jews or no one would have had no hope of eternal life or any life after death.

 The earthly kingdom of Israel would not have needed the death and blood of Christ, the church, which was only a substitute for the kingdom, would never have been bought with the blood of Christ [Acts 20:28]; the church never would have been.

 There would have been only the blood of bulls and goats which cannot save [Hebrews 10:4]. As taught by Millennialists, the death of Christ was not planned or needed.

 There would have been no second coming of Christ, no resurrection, no eternal life for Jews or Gentiles, and no Millennium.

 The Premillennial doctrine is a denial of many of the clearest teaching of the Bible.

 IF GOD SET UP THE CHURCH ONLY AS AN AFTERTHOUGHT, THE MILLENNIUM AS IS TAUGHT BY PREMILLENNIALISTS WOULD HAVE BEEN JUST AS MUCH AN AFTERTHOUGHT, JUST AS UNFORESEEN, JUST AS UNKNOWN ABOUT BY GOD AS THEY SAY THE CHURCH WAS, BUT THEY REPEATEDLY USE THE OLD TESTAMENT TO PROVE THE MILLENNIAL THEORY. THE MILLENNIALISTS ARGUMENT THAT THE CHURCH WAS ONLY AN AFTERTHOUGHT, THAT IT WAS UNFORESEEN MAKES THE MILLENNIAL BE THE SAME AS THE CHURCH, JUST AS UNFORESEEN, JUST AS MUCH ONLY AN AFTERTHOUGHT. IF THERE IS NOTHING IN THE OLD TESTAMENT ABOUT THE UNFORESEEN CHURCH, THERE COULD BE NOTHING IN THE OLD TESTAMENT ABOUT THE UNFORESEEN MILLENNIAL. IF GOD HAD NOT FORESEEN THE REJECTION OF CHRIST AS THE KING OF THE JEWS, HE WOULD NOT HAVE FORESEEN THE NEED TO POSTPONE SETTING UP THE KINGDOM UNTO THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST WHICH HE WOULD NOT HAVE FORESEEN. HE WOULD HAVE FORESEEN NOTHING ABOUT A MILLENNIAL KINGDOM.

 KINGDOM NOT OF THIS WOULD. "My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews; but now is my kingdom not from hence" [John 18:36]. His throne, a part of the kingdom is not of this world, therefore, not in Jerusalem. CHRIST NEVER INTENDED TO SET UP AN EARTHLY KINGDOM. When the Jews came to take Him by force and make Him king, He withdrew into the mountain alone [John 6:15]. "And being asked by the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God comes, he answered them and said, the kingdom of God comes not with observation: neither shall they say, Lo here! Or, there! For the kingdom of God is within you" [Luke 17:20]. An earthly kingdom of Jews was not the kingdom Christ came into the world to set up. "For our citizenship is in heaven" [Philippians 2:23].

 HAL LINSEY AND THE POSTPONEMENT OF THE KINGDOM AND GOD'S ALTERED PLAIN, THE "CHURCH AGE." "There was no lack of evidence to show that Jesus was indeed the long-awaited Messiah. Had the people received Him, He would have fulfilled the Kingly prophecies in their day in additions to the one regarding the suffering Messiah. But, when the Jewish nation as a whole rejected Christ, the fulfillment of His kingship was postponed until the final culmination of world history." Hal Lindsey, "There's A New World Coming" Page 30. If Christ had set up a world kingdom and was king of the Jews, how could He have fulfilled "one regarding the suffering Messiah"? Why would the Jews crucify Him if He had saved them from the Romans and restored the kingdom of David? How could Isaiah have foretold of His rejection and death if His rejection by the Jews was unknown about even by God? "He was oppressed, yet when he was afflicted he opened not his mouth; as a lamb that is let to the slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who among them considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living for the transgression of my people to whom the stroke was due: And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death; although he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth" [Isaiah 53:7-9]. How could anything that Isaiah said have come to pass if the Jews had made Him their king and not have rejected Him? The only answer is that nothing Isaiah foretold would have come to pass if the Jews had not rejected Christ.

 Who do you believe?

 Paul said the Gospel had been preached to the whole world.

 "Whereof you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which is come unto you: even as it is also in all the world" [Colossians 1:5-6].

 "The hope of the gospel which you heard, which was preached in all creation under heaven [Colossians 1:23].

 Hal Lindsey said the Gospel has not yet been preached unto the whole world. "There's a New World Coming" 1973, Page 101.

 Both cannot be right. If Hal Lindsey was right then Paul was wrong. If Paul was wrong, was he inspired? If he was wrong can we believe him in anything?

 THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHURCH WAS "ACCORDING TO THE ETERNAL PURPOSE" OF GOD. "And to make all men see what is the dispensation of the mystery which for ages has been hid in God who created all things; to the intent that now unto the principalities and the powers in the heavenly places might be made known through the church the manifold wisdom of God, ACCORDING TO THE ETERNAL PURPOSE WHICH HE PURPOSED IN CHRIST JESUS OUR LORD" [Ephesians 3:9-11].

 If, as the Premillennialists tell us, that the church was not foreseen in the Old Testament, how was it "ACCORDING TO THE ETERNAL PURPOSE WHICH HE PURPOSED IN CHRIST JESUS OUR LORD"?

 If the church is "according to the eternal purpose," nothing about the Premillennialists teaching can be true. THE MANIFOLD WISDOM OF GOD IS "MADE KNOWN THROUGH THE CHURCH."

 If it is as Premillennialists tell us, that the church was just an afterthought when God was unable to set up the kingdom, how could it make known the manifold wisdom of God? Would the Premillennialists view not show that God did not have all wisdom for He did not know the Jews were going to reject Christ? "I GLORIFIED YOU ON THE EARTH, HAVING ACCOMPLISHED THE WORK WHICH YOU HAVE GIVEN ME TO DO" [John 17:4]. If restoring the throne of David had been the work God give Him to do, He did not accomplish it.

 If, as the Premillennialists say, Christ failed to sit up the kingdom, which He came to do and the church was only a substitute for His failure, then He could not have said he accomplished the work God give Him to do. He failed. Do you believe this evil teaching that makes both God and Christ to have failed? Also Ephesians 1:3-14; Romans 8:28-29; 2 Thessalonians 2:13; 2 Timothy 1:9.

 Therefore, the substitute, the church which is the bride of Christ [Revelation 21:9], which Christ purchased with His own blood [Acts 20:28], must be done away with before the Millennium, before the kingdom is restored to Israel.

 Premillennialists believe God had plan A, but it failed, and God had to go to plan B. If they were right, how could anyone know that plan B would not also fail? How could anyone have faith in a God that failed?

 BEFORE THE DAY OF PENTECOST [Acts 2] THE KINGDOM IS SPOKEN OF AS BEING IN THE NEAR FUTURE. FROM THE DAY OF PENTECOST ON THE KINGDOM WAS SPOKEN OF AS EXISTING.

 BEFORE PENTECOST - KINGDOM AT HAND

 "THE TIME IS FULFILLED, AND THE KINGDOM OF GOD IS AT HAND" [Mark 1:14].

 JOHN THE BAPTIST: "Repent you; for the KINGDOM OF HEAVEN IS AT HAND" [Matthew 3:2]. "Kingdom of God is at hand" [Mark 1:15].

 CHRIST: "From that time began Jesus to preach, and to say, repent you for the KINGDOM OF HEAVEN IS AT HAND" [Matthew 4:17]. "Kingdom of God is at hand" [Mark 1:15]. "But if I by the Spirit of God cast out demons, than is the kingdom of God come upon you" [Matthew 12:28]. "KINGDOM OF GOD IS NIGH" [Luke 21:29-32].

 THE TWELVE: "And as you go, preach, saying, The KINGDOM OF HEAVEN IS AT HAND" [Matthew 10:7]. "And say unto them, the kingdom of God IS COME NIGH UNTO YOU...nevertheless know this, that the KINGDOM OF GOD IS COME NIGH" [Luke 10:9-11].

 SOME WOULD NOT DIE BEFORE THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN CAME, "BUT I TELL YOU OF A TRUTH, THERE ARE SOME OF THEM THAT STAND HERE, WHO SHALL IN NO WISE TASTE OF DEATH, TILL THEY SEE THE KINGDOM OF GOD" [Luke 9:27]. "VERILY I SAY UNTO YOU, THERE ARE SOME OF THEM THAT STAND HERE, WHO SHALL IN NO WISE TASTE OF DEATH, TILL THEY SEE THE SON OF MAN COMING IN HIS KINGDOM" [Matthew 16:28]. If the kingdom of heaven has not come, there are some very old people living today. About two-thousand years old.

 CHRIST RECEIVED THE KINGDOM WHEN HE ASCENDED. In Daniel 7:13-14 Christ was given dominion and a kingdom when He "came up to the Ancient of Days." Not when He comes from the Ancient of Days at His second coming when He will descend with the clouds [Acts 1:11].

 THE KINGDOM PARABLES: "The kingdom of heaven is like unto..." In the kingdom parables Jesus contradicted the expectation of an earthly political kingdom in which Israel would be restored, and these parables contradict the expectation to the Millennialists of an earthly kingdom in which Israel will be restored. PREMILLENNIALISTS HAVE TAKEN THE SAME EXPECTATION OF THE JEWS OF AN EARTHLY JEWISH POLITICAL KINGDOM AND TRANSFERRED IT TO THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. "And being asked by the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God comes, he answered them and said, the kingdom of God comes not with observation: neither shall they say, Lo, here! Or there! For lo, the kingdom of God is within you" [Luke 17:20-21].

 "The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed" [Matthew 13:31] "Kingdom of God...is like a grain of mustard seed" [Mark 4:30-31; Luke 13:18]. The kingdom stated with a few on the day Pentecost and grew and is still growing every time one is born into it. It is like a seed growing into a tree. Not an earthly kingdom that would restore Israel as the Jews expected and the kingdom is not an earthly kingdom of Israel restored as the Millennialists expect. It is not a political kingdom that will come suddenly at the second coming of Christ.

 "The kingdom of heaven is like leaven" [Matthew 13:31-33] "Kingdom of God...is like unto leaven" [Luke 13:20-21]

 "The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man that sowed good seed in his field" [Matthew 13:24] "His disciples came unto him, saying, explain unto us the parable of the tares of the field. And he answered and said, he that sows the good seed is the Son of man; and the field is the world; and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; and the tares are the sons of the evil one; and the enemy that sowed them is the devil: and the harvest is the end of the world; (age) and the reapers are angels. As; therefore, the tares are gathered up and burned with fire; so shall it be in the end of the world (age). The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that cause stumbling and them that do iniquity, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth. Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sons in the kingdom of their Father" [Matthew 13:39-43]. This clearly shows the kingdom to be existing now, before the second coming of Christ, before when Premillennialists say it is to be set up. THE KINGDOM EXISTS NOW IN THIS AGE BEFORE THE COMING OF CHRIST. Premillennialists say the kingdom was put off unto the second coming, therefore, they must make the tares be sown in the Millennium after the second coming of Christ for there would be no kingdom now.

 "The kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure" [Matthew 13:44]

 "The kingdom of heaven is like unto merchant" [Matthew 13:45]

 "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a net" [Matthew 13:47] Like the tares, Premillennialists must make the net be used at some time after the coming of Christ, not at His coming. If the net is used at His coming, the kingdom would have to be existing when He comes, not set up after He comes.

 "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a householder" [Matthew 12:52]

 "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king" [Matthew 1823] "Kingdom of God" [Mark 22:2]

 The "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of Heaven" are used interchangeably in the gospels, the "kingdom of Heaven" by Matthew and "kingdom of God" in the parallel passages in Mark, Luke, and John, therefore, is the same kingdom although some Premillennialists make a distinction in the "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of Heaven," saying that they are different kingdoms.

 Zechariah 9:9-10 Quoted in Matthew 21:4-5 proves that Christ was then a king. "Tell you the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king comes unto you, meek, and riding upon a colt he foal of an ass."

 AFTER PENTECOST

 PAUL SAID WE ARE IN THE KINGDOM. "Who delivered us out of the power of darkness, AND TRANSLATED US INTO THE KINGDOM OF THE SON OF HIS LOVE" [Colossians 1:13]. IF THERE WERE NO KINGDOM AT THAT TIME, INTO WHAT WERE THEY TRANSLATED?

 THE NEW BIRTH PUTS ONE IN THE KINGDOM. THE NEW BIRTH PUTS ONE IN THE CHURCH.

 IN THE KINGDOM: "Except one be born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God" In John 3:5, Christ said we enter the kingdom by the new birth.

 IN THE CHURCH: "Having been born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible" [1 Peter 1:23]. We enter the church by the new birth. The kingdom and the church are one, the same thing. Those who are born again are in Christ, are also in the kingdom, the church.

 JOHN WAS "IN THE KINGDOM" "I John, your brother and partaker with you in the tribulation and kingdom" [Revelation 1:9]. John said he was a companion [pertaker] IN GOD'S KINGDOM with those he was writing to.

 "Wherefore, receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us have grace, whereby we may offer service well-pleasing to God with reverence and awe" [Hebrews 12:28]. How could it be that they were receiving a kingdom when the Millennialists tell us then no one will be receiving a kingdom unto after Christ comes a second time? Either the writer of Hebrews or the Millennialists are wrong. I will go with the writer of Hebrews.

 "Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence. Pilate therefore said unto him, Are you a king them: Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. To this end have I been born, and to this end am I come into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth" [John 18:36-37; Luke 23:3]. The Millennialists view that Christ came to be king of the Jews and Israel, and He would rule the world makes Christ be making no sense. In some of their books they have two armies running Christ and the Jews behind the walls of Jerusalem.

 NO JEWS, NO GENTILES IN THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN "Wherefore, remember that once you, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called Uncircumcised by that which is called Circumcision, in the flesh, made by hands; that you were at that time separate from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and stranger from the covenants of the promises, having no hope and without God in the world. But, now in Christ Jesus you that once were far off are made nigh in blood of Christ. For he is our peace, who made both one, and brake down the middle wall of partition, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained ordinances; that he might create in himself of the two one new man, so making peace; and might reconcile them both in one body unto God through the cross, having slain the enmity thereby: and he came and preached peace to you that were far off, and peace to them that was nigh: for through him we both have our access in one Spirit unto the Father. So then you are no more strangers and sojourners, but you are fellow-citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the chief corner stone; in whom each several building, fitly framed together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord; in whom you also are build together for a habitation of God in the Spirit" [Ephesians 2:11-22]. "For they are not all Israel that are Israel: neither, because they are Abraham's seed, are they all children: but, in Isaac shall your seed be called. That is, it is not the children of the fresh that are children of God; but the children of the promise are reckoned for a seed" [Romans 9:6-8]. Paul said circumcision, or uncircumcision does not count, but the new birth [Galatians 6:15]. THE CHURCH (not a nation that rejected Christ) IS NOW "THE ISRAEL OF GOD" [Galatians 6:16]. ALL WHO HAS BEEN BORN AGAIN ARE IN GOD'S KINGDOM, THE CHURCH. "But you ARE COME UNTO mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, THE HEAVENLY JERUSALEM" [Hebrews 12:22].

 God has now "delivered us out of the power of darkness and translated us into the kingdom of the Son of his love" [Colossians 1:13].

 "Christ the first fruits, after that those who are Christ's AT HIS COMING, THEN COMES THE END, WHEN HE DELIVERS UP THE KINGDOM TO THE GOD AND FATHER, when he has abolished all rule and all authority and power. For HE MUST REIGN until He has put all His enemies under His feet. The last enemy that will be abolished is death" [1 Corinthians 15:24-26].

 John was a fellow partaker in the kingdom with his brothers to whom he was writing Revelation 1:9.

 PROPHECY ALSO FAILED. "I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren, like unto you; and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him" [Deuteronomy 18:18-19]. After Christ had been rejected by the Jews and, according to Premillennialists, the setting up of the kingdom of heaven had failed, Peter quoted this passage and said Moses was speaking of these days, and not only Moses, but "all the prophets from Samuel and them that followed after, as many as have spoken, THEY ALSO TOLD OF THESE DAYS" [Acts 3:23-25]. HOW COULD MOSES AND ALL THE PROPHETS HAVE SPOKEN OF "the church age," which we are told is the unknown "gap" IF IT WERE NOT KNOWN ABOUT IN THE OLD TESTAMENT? Moses was told that there would be a prophet greater then him. John the Baptist was asked, "Are you the prophet?" [John 1:21]. "When; therefore, the people saw the sign which he did, they said, This is of a truth the prophet that comes into the world" [John 6:14], and "Some of the multitude; therefore, when they heard these words, said, This is of a truth the prophet" [John 7:40]. They were looking for the prophet spoken of by Moses and thought that John, and later thought that Christ was that prophet. If, as the Premillennialists tell us that what they call "the church age" was unknown in the Old Testament, and this was speaking of Christ in the kingdom, them it failed. Not only did it fail, Peter misused it for he applied it to "the church age," which "was unknown in the Old Testament." Peter also said, "He (David) spoke of the resurrection of the Christ" [Acts 2:31]. How could he have spoken of the resurrection when, according to Premillennialists, God did not know the Jews were going to reject and kill the Christ? IT IS ADMITTED BY MOST PREMILLENNIALISTS THAT IT WAS FORETOLD THAT JESUS WOULD ESTABLISH HIS KINGDOM AT HIS FIRST COMING. WHEN WAS ANYTHING SAID ABOUT THE KINGDOM BEING POSTPONED? IT NEVER WAS. EVEN WHEN CHRIST WAS BEFORE PILATE HE SAID THAT HE WAS KING [Luke 23:3] AND HE GAVE NO HINT THAT THE KINGDOM HAD BEEN POSTPONED. THEY HAVE REWRITTEN THE BIBLE.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 10

 BACK TO THE TEMPLE MADE WITH HANDS

 The Premillennial view is a return to Judaism, a re-establishent of national Israel and the types and shadows of the Old Covenant, which the writer of Hebrews is warning against throughout the whole book.

 From the blood of Christ back to the blood of animals

 From Christ our High Priest back to the Old Testament priesthood

 From the substance back to the shadow

 From the better New Covenant back to the Old Covenant

 From that which makes alive back to that which kills

 From free back to bondage

 FROM THE BLOOD OF CHRIST BACK TO THE BLOOD OF ANIMALS

 Hebrews 10:16-17: "This is the covenant that I will make with them After those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws on their heart, and upon their mind also will I write them; then he says, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh; and having a great priest over the house of God; let us draw near with a true heart in fullness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience: and having our body washed with pure water."

 Hebrews 12:24-25: "And to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel. See that you refuse not him that speaks. For if they escaped not when they refused him that warned them on earth, much more shall not we escape who turn away from him that warns from heaven."

 Hebrews 13:20: "Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal covenant, even our Lord Jesus."

 Hebrews 10:29: "Of how much sorer punishment, think you, shall he be judged worthy, who has trodden underfoot the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing."

 Also:

 Acts 20:28 "Take heed unto yourselves, and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you bishops, to feed the church of the Lord which he purchased with his own blood."

 Romans 3:24-25: "Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus: whom God set forth to be a propitiation, through faith, in his blood, to show his righteousness because of the passing over of the sins done afore time, in the forbearance of God."

 Romans 5:5-9: "For while we were yet weak, in due season Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: for peradventure for the good man some one would even dare to die. But God commends his own love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more then, being now justified by his blood, shall we be saved from the wrath of God through him."

 Ephesians 1-9: "Having foreordained us unto adoption as sons through Jesus Christ unto himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the Beloved: in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence, making known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he purposed in him unto a dispensation of the fullness of the times, to sum up all things in Christ, the things in the heavens, and the things upon the earth; in him, I say, in whom also we were made a heritage, having been foreordained according to the purpose of him who works all things after the counsel of his will; to the end that we should be unto the praise of his glory, we who had before hoped in Christ: in whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom, having also believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, which is an earnest of our inheritance, unto the redemption of God's own possession, unto the praise of his glory."

 Colossians 1:19-20: "For it was the good pleasure of the Father that in him should all the fullness dwell; and through him to reconcile all things unto himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross; through him, I say, whether things upon the earth, or things in the heavens."

 1 Peter 1:2: "According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace be multiplied."

 1 Peter 1:19-20: "But with precious blood, as of a lamb without spot, even the blood of Christ: who was foreknown indeed before the foundation of the world, but was manifested at the end of times for your sake, who through him are believers in God, that raised him from the dead, and gave him glory; so that your faith and hope might be in God."

 1 John 1:7: "But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleans us from all sin."

 Revelation 1:5-6: "And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loves us, and loosed us from our sins by his blood; and he made us to be a kingdom, to be priests unto his God and Father; to him be the glory and the dominion for ever and ever. Amen."

 Revelation 5:9-10: "And they sing a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for you was slain, and did purchase unto God with your blood men of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation, and made them to be unto our God a kingdom and priests; and they reign upon earth."

 FROM CHRIST OUR HIGH PRIEST BACK TO THE OLD TESTAMENT PRIESTHOOD

 Hebrews 8:1-4: "Now in the things which we are saying the chief point is this: we have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, a minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man. For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is necessary that this high priest also have somewhat to offer. Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are those who offer the gifts according to the law; who serve that which is a copy and shadow of the heavenly things." IF THE TEMPLE WERE REBUILT IN THE MILLENNIUM, THEN THE OLD TESTAMENT PRIESTHOOD WOULD HAVE TO BE RESTORED WHICH WOULD REQUIRE THAT THE LAW BE RESTORED; IT WOULD REQUIRE GOING BACK TO THE BLOOD OF GOATS AND CALVES. "But Christ having come a high priest of the good things to come, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation, nor yet through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, entered in once for all into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling them that have been defiled, sanctify unto the cleanness of the flesh: how much more shall the blood of Christ." See Hebrews chapter nine.

 Hebrews 9:6-25: "Now these things having been prepared, the priests go in continually into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the services; but into the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for himself, and for the errors of the people: the Holy Spirit this signifying, that the way into the holy place had not yet been made manifest, while the first tabernacle is yet standing; WHICH IS A FIGURE FOR THE TIME PRESENT; according to which are offered both gifts and sacrifices that cannot, as touching the conscience, make the worshiper perfect, being only (with meats and drinks and divers washings) carnal ordinances, imposed until a time of reformation. But Christ having come a high priest of the good things to come, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation, nor yet through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, entered in once for all into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling them that have been defiled, sanctify unto the cleanness of the flesh: how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? And for this cause he is the mediator of a new covenant, that a death having taken place for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, they that have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. For where a testament is, there must of necessity be the death of him that made it. For a testament is of force where there has been death: for it never does avail while he that made it lives. Wherefore even the first covenant has not been dedicated without blood. For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded to you-ward. Moreover, the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry he sprinkled in like manner with the blood. And according to the law, I may almost say, all things are cleansed with blood, and apart from shedding of blood there is no remission. It was necessary; therefore, that the copies of the things in the heavens should be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ entered not into a holy place made with hands, like in pattern to the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear before the face of God for us: nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters into the holy place year by year with blood not his own; else must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once at the end of the ages has he been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And inasmuch as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this comes judgment so Christ also, having been once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear a second time, apart from sin, to them that wait for him, unto salvation."

 THE PREMILLENNIAL BELIEF REJESTS THE PRIESTHOOD OF CHRIST FOR THE PRIESTHOOD OF THE OLD TESTAMENT.

 FROM THE SUBSTANCE BACK TO THE SHADOW

 Hebrews 8:4-5: "Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are those who offer the gifts according to the law; who serve that which is a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses is warned of God when he is about to make the tabernacle: for, See, he says, that you make all things according to the pattern that was showed you in the mount." THE BOOK OF HEBREWS IS ONE LONG ARGUMENT AGAINST GOING BACK FROM THE SUBSTANCE TO THE SHADOW, FROM THE NEW COVENANT BACK TO THE OLD COVENANT, WHICH BOTH JUDAISM (a restoration of national Israel) AND PREMILLENNIAL TEACHING (a modern day restoration of national Israel) DOES, THEREFORE, THE BOOK OF HEBREWS IS ONE LONG ARGUMENT AGAINST THE PREMILLENNIAL VIEW. Premillennialists teach Christianity will be done away and replaced by Judaism at the coming of Christ. The Premillennial doctrine is a return to Judaism, a re-establishent of national Israel and the types and shadows of the Old Covenant, which the writer of Hebrews is warning against throughout the whole book.

 Hebrews 10:1-6: "For the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that draw nigh. Else would they not have ceased to be offered? because the worshipers, having been once cleansed, would have had no more consciousness of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance made of sins year by year. For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. Wherefore when he comes into the world, he said, Sacrifice and offering you would not, but a body you did prepare for me; in whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you had no pleasure: Then said I, Lo, I am come (In the roll of the book it is written of me) to do your will, O God. saying above, sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you would not, neither had pleasure therein (the which are offered according to the law), then has he said, Lo, I am come to do your will. He takes away the first, that he may establish the second. By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest indeed stands day by day ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, the which can never take away sins: but he, when he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God; henceforth expecting till his enemies be made the footstool of his feet. For by one offering he has perfected for ever them that are sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after he had said, This is the covenant that I will make with them After those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws on their heart, and upon their mind also will I write them; then said he, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin."

 FROM THE BETTER NEW COVENANT BACK TO THE OLD COVENANT

 Hebrews 10:7-11: "Then said I, Lo, I am come (In the roll of the book it is written of me) To do your will, O God. Saying above, Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you would not, neither had pleasure therein (the which are offered according to the law), then he has said, Lo, I am come to do your will. He takes away the first, that he may establish the second. By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all." See Hebrews 9 and 10.

 Hebrews 12:22-23 is a list of seven ways the New Covenant is now better than the Old Covenant.

 You have not come unto a mount that could be touched and that burned with fire, "but YOU ARE COME unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem."

 You are come "To innumerable hosts of angels."

 You are come "To the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven."

 You are come "To God the Judge of all."

 You are come "To the spirits of just men made perfect." "And to the spirits of the righteous made perfect" [New Revised Standard Version].

 You are come "To Jesus the mediator of a new covenant."

 You are come "To the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel."

 Jeremiah 31:31-36: "Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah: not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; which my covenant they brake, although I was a husband unto them, says Jehovah. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says Jehovah: I will put my law in their inward parts, and in their heart will I write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people: and they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, know Jehovah; for they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, says Jehovah: for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin will I remember no more. Thus says Jehovah, who gives the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, who stirs up the sea, so that the waves thereof roar; Jehovah of hosts is his name: If these ordinances depart from before me, says Jehovah, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before me for ever." This is quoted in Hebrews 8:8-11 and 10:16 and applied to the New Covenant. Jeremiah did tell of the coming of the New Covenant. It was not something unknown in the Old Testament.

 FROM THAT WHICH MAKES ALIVE BACK TO THAT WHICH KILLS

 2 Corinthians 3:6-11: "Who also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. But if the ministration of death, written, and engraved on stones, came with glory, so that the children of Israel could not look steadfastly upon the face of Moses for the glory of his face; which glory was passing away: how shall not rather the ministration of the spirit be with glory? For if the ministration of condemnation has glory, much rather does the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. For verily that which has been made glorious has not been made glorious in this respect, by reason of the glory that surpasses. For if that which passes away was with glory, much more that which remained is in glory."

 The Law of Moses was passing away [2 Corinthians 3:4-9].

 The Law of Moses was nailed to the cross [Colossians 2:4-16].

 The Law of Moses has been abolished [Ephesians 2:14-16].

 The Law of Moses was done away in Christ [2 Corinthians 3:11].

 Millennialists believe the New Covenant is a parenthesis, something added to be temporary, unto the Millennium. Actual they have it backward. The Law was a parenthesis added for fifteen hundred years between the promise made to Abraham and the death and resurrection of Christ; "added because of transgressions...UNTIL THE SEED SHOULD COME" [Galatians 3:19]. A parenthesis is something added to a sentence which is not a real part of the sentence. Christ is that seed and the parenthesis, which was the temporary Law, the "wall of partition" between Israel and all other nations has been "abolished." "For He Himself is our peace, who made both groups into one, and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall, by abolishing in His flesh the enmity, WHICH IS THE LAW OF COMMANDMENTS contained in ordinances, that in Himself He might make the two into one new man, thus establishing peace" [Ephesians 2:14-15]. The temporary parenthesis was "passing away" [2 Corinthians 3:4-9], was "nailed to the cross" [Colossians 2:4-16], has "been abolished" [Ephesians 2:14-16], and was "done away in Christ" [2 Corinthians 3:11]. The Law, which was only a temporary parenthesis could not "make the worshiper perfect in conscience" and was "imposed until a time of reformation" [Hebrews 9:9-10].

 The Millennialists who want to go back to the Law, back to the temporary parenthesis "have been severed from Christ, you who are seeking to be justified by the law; you have fallen from grace" [Galatians 5:4]. At the death of Christ the veil of the temple was "rent in two from the top to the bottom" [Matthew 27:51] bringing to an end the office of the priest and the sacrifices for sin, Christ having made the one sacrifice and bring to an end the sacrifices made under the Law. "And every priest indeed stands day by day ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, the which can never take away sins: but he, when he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever sat down on the right had of God" [Hebrews 10:11-12].

 FROM FREE BACK TO BONDAGE

 Galatians 4:1-31: "But I say that so long as the heir is a child, he differs nothing from a bond servant though he is lord of all; but is under guardians and stewards until the day appointed of the father. So we also, when we were children, were held in bondage under the rudiments of the world: but when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, that he might redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because you are sons, God sent forth the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abbe, Father. So that you are no longer a bond servant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir through God. How be it at that time, not knowing God, you were in bondage to them that by nature are no gods: but now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how turn you back again to the weak and beggarly rudiments, whereunto you desire to be in bondage over again? You observe days, and months, and seasons, and years. I am afraid of you, lest by any means I have bestowed labor upon you in vain. I beseech you, brethren, become as I am, for I also am become as you are. You did me no wrong: but you know that because of an infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel unto you the first time: and that which was a temptation to you in my flesh you despised not, nor rejected; but you received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus. Where then is that gratulation of yourselves? for I bear you witness, that, if possible, you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me. So then am I become your enemy, by telling you the truth? They zealously seek you in no good way; nay, they desire to shut you out, that you may seek them. But it is good to be zealously sought in a good matter at all times, and not only when I am present with you. My little children, of whom I am again in travail until Christ be formed in you-but I could wish to be present with you now, and to change my tone; for I am perplexed about you. Tell me, you that desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law? For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, one by the handmaid, and one by the free woman. How be it the son by the handmaid is born after the flesh; but the son by the free woman is born through promise. Which things contain an allegory: for these women are two covenants; one from mount Sinai, bearing children unto bondage, which is Hagar. Now this Hagar is mount Sinai in Arabia and answers to the Jerusalem that now is: for she is in bondage with her children. But, the Jerusalem that is above is free, which is our mother. For it is written, Rejoice, you barren that bears not; Break forth and cry, you that travails not: For more are the children of the desolate than of her that has the husband. Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are children of promise. But, as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit, so also it is now [Paul is saying Israel, born after the flesh, was them, at the time he was writing, persecuting the church, born after the Spirit. Premillennialists say we will go back to "the flesh" in the Millennial]. How be it what say the scripture? Cast out the handmaid and her son: for the son of the handmaid shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. Wherefore, brethren, we are not children of a handmaid, but of the free woman."

 Yet, we are told that the New Covenant is only an afterthought and is to last only unto the coming of Christ when the Old Covenant will be restored. WITHOUT GOING BACK TO ANIMAL SACRIFICES THERE COULD NOT BE A RESTORING OF THE LAW OF MOSES. WITHOUT RESTORING THE LAW OF MOSES THERE COULD NOT BE A RESTORING OF THE NATION OF ISRAEL. WITHOUT RESTORING THE NATION OF ISRAEL THERE COULD NOT A MILLENNIUM.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 11

 OLD TESTAMENT PASSAGES

 USED BY MILLENNIALISTS TO TEACH CHRIST WOULD SET UP A KINGDOM

 AND RULE THE WORLD FROM JERUSALEM IN THE MILLENNIUM.

 MILLENNIALISTS TELL US THAT GOD PLANNED FOR CHRIST TO BE KING ON THE THRONE OF DAVID WHEN HE CAME THE FIRST TIME AND RULE THE WORLD FROM JERUSALEM; THAT GOD DID NOT KNOW THE JEWS WERE GOING TO REJECT CHRIST AND PUT HIM TO DEATH, BUT BECAUSE THEY DID, THE CHURCH, AN AFTERTHOUGHT WAS SET UP AND NEW PLAINS WERE MADE FOR CHRIST TO COME A SECOND TIME AND DO WHAT HE COULD NOT DO THE FIRST TIME. IF THEY WERE RIGHT; GOD WOULD NOT HAVE KNOWN CHRIST WOULD NOT NOW BE ON THE THRONE OF DAVID. GOD WOULD NOT HAVE KNOWN ABOUT THE SECOND COMING. GOD OR NONE OF THE PROPHETS WOULD NOT HAVE KNOWN ANYTHING ABOUT THE MILLENNIUM. THERE COULD NOT BE ANYTHING IN THE OLD TESTAMENT ABOUT THE DEATH OF CHRIST, THE CHURCH, THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST OR THE MILLENNIUM. If they were right, the Millennium would have been just as unknown by God as the church; therefore, the second coming and the Millennium would be just as much an afterthought as the church. THE CHURCH, THE SECOND COMING AND THE MILLENNIUM WOULD ALL BE BECAUSE OF THE JEWS REJECTING CHRIST AS THEIR KING, NOT THE FOREKNOWN PLAN OF GOD.

 EZEKIEL 34-48 Premillennialists believe all scriptures must be taken literal. If Ezekiel 38-48 were taken literal, then there will once again be sin-offerings in the future. Chapters 38-48 were fulfilled after the Babylonian captivity when Israel was restored to the promised land. Israel being restored for a thousand years is not taught in Ezekiel. "For such a high priest became us, holy, guileless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens; who needs not daily like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people: for this he did once for all, when he offered up himself" [Hebrews 7:27]. For the sin-offerings to be restored would be rejecting the offerings of Christ. I have never known of any Millennialists who believe David will literally be king of Israel in the thousand years [Ezekiel 34:23]; they believe Christ will be the king of Israel in the Millennium, that David will not literally be the king but is symbolic of Christ. Christ is now both priest and king. If this passage were speaking about when Christ comes, the Jews would have to be literally mixed among the nations and worshiping idols as they were when Ezekiel wrote this, not in their own nation.

 DANIEL 2 "In the days of these kings" Brian Schwertley, a Dispensationalists says, "In this prophetic explanation of King Nebuchadnezzar's dream Daniel revealed that the kingdom of Christ would be established in the days of the Roman Empire; 'And in the days of these kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed; and the kingdom shall not be left to other people; it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever' (Dan. 2:44). The vast majority of interpreters (including Dispensationalists) identify the four kingdoms as (1) the head of gold--the neo-Babylonian Empire; (2) the breast and arms--the Medo-Persian Empire; (3) the belly and thighs--the Grecian Empire; (4) the legs and feet--the Roman Empire. Daniel says that the statue which represents these successive pagan empires is still standing when the kingdom of Christ is set up." http:www.reformedonling.com/view/reformedonling/milenium.htm

 Gold - Babylon Empire ["You are the head of gold" Daniel 2:38]

 Silver - Medo-Persia Empire ["After you shall arise another kingdom inferior to you" Daniel 2:39]

 Brass - Macedo-Grecian Empire ["And another third kingdom of brass" Daniel 2:39]

 Iron - Roman Empire ["And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron" Daniel 2:40]. "And whereas you saw the feet and toes, part of potters' clay, and part of iron, it shall be a divided kingdom; but there shall be in it the strength of the iron" [Daniel 2:40-43]. THERE IS NOTHING SAID ABOUT THE TOES BEING TEN WORLD KINGDOMS, BUT THE MILLENNIALISTS ADD TEN KINGDOMS, AND SOME MILLENNIALISTS PLACE THESE KINGDOMS IN THE THOUSAND YEARS. WE ARE SPECIFICALLY TOLD WHAT PARTS OF THE IMAGE REPRESENT KINGDOMS AND THERE ARE ONLY FOUR, NOT FOURTEEN KINGDOMS. WE ARE SPECIFICALLY TOLD THAT THE STONE SMOTE THE IMAGE ON THE FEET, NOT THE TOES, AND THE IMAGE WAS ON IT FEET [Rome was still standing] WHEN THE STONE SMOTE IT.

 "And in the days of these kings [Rome] shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed [Not a kingdom that will last for only a thousand years], nor shall the sovereignty thereof be left to another people; but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. For as much as you saw that a stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God has made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter: and the dream is certain [Certain even if Millennialists tell us it was postponed and did not happen], and the interpretation thereof sure" [Daniel 2:44-45]. The image was smitten on its feet, which was the Roman empire. The kingdom God was to set up was to be "in the days of these kings." Therefore, the kingdom had to be set up while the Caesars were ruling Roman. It smote the image on its feet and destroyed it. There has never been another world empire; this line of world kingdoms ceased. The kingdom of God destroyed the image. If the Millennium is coming soon, in our lifetime, as many Premillennialists say it is, there is no image for it to smote on its feet and destroy.

 This passage says:

 God will set up a kingdom in the days of the Iron Empire, which was the Roman Empire.

 This kingdom will stand forever.

 This kingdom will be set up "in the days of these kings," during the fourth world power - Rome. Millennialists admit that God intended to sat up a kingdom then but says this did not happen for God was defeated by the Jews.

 A prophecy that is of something that is to happen at a given time, "in the days of these kings," sometimes called a "time prophecy" cannot be changed or deferred to a later time. A prophecy that was of the first coming of Christ and the kingdom He was to set up at the first coming of Christ cannot be changed or "postponed" to be at the second coming of Christ. If it was "postponed" and did not come to pass at the first coming the prophecy was a failure. PREMILLENNIALISTS MAKE ALL THE PROPHESIES OF THE KINGDOM AND OF THE FIRST COMING OF CHRIST A FAILURE, THEREFORE, PREMILLENNIALISTS MAKE THE PROPHETS, GOD AND CHRIST TO HAVE FAILED. Then how can we know God will not fail to set up the kingdom at a later time? If God failed one time He can fail often, therefore, is He God? Not if the Premillennial belief were true.

 DANIEL 4 Nebuchadnezzar's dream in Daniel 4 is applied by some to the Millennium even though Daniel tells us that the dream is about Nebuchadnezzar, not the Millennium. "This is the interpretation, O king, and it is the decree of the Most High, which is come upon my lord the king: that you shall be driven from men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and you shall be made to eat grass as oxen, and shall be wet with the dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over you; till you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomsoever he will" [Daniel 4:24-25].

 ISAIAH 11:1-12 Millennialists often use Isaiah 11:1-12 and teach that it is to be fulfilled in the Millennium. Paul quotes Isaiah and says he is speaking of the first coming of Christ. "I have found David the Son of Jesse, a man after my heart, who shall do all my will. Of this man's seed has God according to promise brought unto Israel a Savior, Jesus" [Acts 13:22-24].

 I SAIAH 28:14-16 "Wherefore hear the word of Jehovah, you scoffers that rule this people that is in Jerusalem: because you have said, we have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us; for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves: therefore, thus says the Lord Jehovah, behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner-stone of sure foundation: he that believes shall not be in haste." The Millennialists use this passage even despite the fact that it is quoted by both Paul [Romans 9:31-33], and two times by Peter [1 Peter 2:6-7; Acts 4:11] and both Paul and Peter apply it to Christ being the corner stone of the Church which Millennialists tell us was unknown about by the prophets. I believe that if I were a Millennialists that I would never get near this passage. The rulers of Jerusalem thought that by putting Christ to death would be the end of Him, but, by the resurrection, God made Him the corner-stone of the church. Their "covenant with death" [Isaiah 28:18] was annulled by the resurrection of Christ. Peter says the same thing that Isaiah said, "You rulers of the people, and elders...be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom you crucified, [Their "covenant with death" which was annulled] who God raised from the dead, even in him does that man stand here before you whole. He is the stone which was set at naught of you the builders, which was made the head of the corner" [Acts 4:8-11].

 ISAIAH 49:8 is quoted by Paul in 2 Corinthians 6:2 and he says, "Behold, now is the acceptable time; behold, not is the day of salvation."

 ISAIAH 61:1-2 is quoted by Christ in Luke 4 and in 4:21 Christ says, "This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears."

 EZEKIEL 37:27 A passage which Premillennialists use to teach that the kingdom will literally be rebuilt in Jerusalem after the second coming of Christ. Their problem is that Paul applied this prophecy to the church, which was set up "in the days of these kings" - the Roman Empire, not to rebuilding Israel after the second coming of Christ. "For we are a temple of the living God; even as God said, I WILL DWELL IN THEM, AND WALK IN THEM; AND I WILL BE THEIR GOD, AND THEY SHALL BE MY PEOPLE" [2 Corinthians 6:16].

 ISAIAH 65:17-20 is used by Premillennialists but it is speaking of new heavens and a new earth which they say will be after the Millennium, some the eternal state on earth after the Millennium, some the eternal state in Heaven; therefore, even according to them it is not speaking of the Millennium. The passage is speaking a completely new order which was to come, the church now, not the eternal state after the judgment.

 PSALMS 2:1-9 "Why do the nations rage, and the peoples meditate a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against Jehovah, and against his anointed, saying, let us break their bonds asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that sits in the heavens will laugh: The Lord will have them in derision. Then will he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure: yet I have set my king Upon my holy hill of Zion. I will tell of the decree: Jehovah said unto me, You are my son: this day have I begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations (footnote: Gentiles) for your inheritance." Paul tells us this has been fulfilled in Christ. "And we bring you good news of the promise made unto the fathers, that God has fulfilled the same unto our children, in that he raised up Jesus; as also it is written the second Psalms, You are my Son, this day have I begotten you" [Acts 13:32-34]. Also in Hebrews 1:5 and 5:5 it is quoted and applied to Christ. Both times applied to His first coming. Yet, Millennialists tell us that Psalms 2:6 is to be fulfilled in the Millennium age. But at the same time they tell us that God was going to set up the kingdom when Christ came the first time, but the rejection of Christ by the Jews, WHICH THEY SAY GOD DID NOT FORESEE, caused the kingdom to be postponed. HOW COULD ANY OLD TESTAMENT PASSAGE HAVE ANY REFERENCE TO EITHER THE CHURCH OR THE MILLENNIUM IF GOD DID NOT FORESEE THAT CHRIST WOULD BE REJECTED AND HE WOULD NOT SET UP THE KINGDOM AS GOD HAD PLANNED FOR CHRIST TO DO WHEN HE CAME THE FIRST TIME?

 Acts 4:24-25 quotes this Psalm and applied it to the first coming of Christ.

 Acts 13:33 applied it to the resurrection of Christ, not to His second coming and the Millennium.

 Hebrews 1:5 and Hebrews 5:5 both quote verse 7 as having been fulfilled. Verse 8 shows the worldwide nature of the Kingdom of Heaven, all who will believe.

 AMOS 9:11-15 - Acts 15 Scofield Reference Bible says this is the most important passage in the New Testament for Dispensationalists. JAMES APPLIED AMOS 9:11-12 TO THE CHURCH, NOT TO A RESTORED JEWISH KINGDOM IN WHICH THE JEWS WOULD RULE THE WORLD. "Brethren, hearken unto me: Symeon has rehearsed how first God visited the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name. And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written, After these things I will return, and I will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up; that the residue of men may seek after the Lord. And all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, says the Lord, who makes these things known from of old" [Acts 15:14-18]. Premillennialists and Dispensationalists argument are that this and all scripture must be taken literally. If Amos 9:11-12 were taken literally then:

 The temple will be rebuilt.

 The priesthood restored. The priesthood had to be or the tribe of Levi, but there is no tribe of Levi today.

 Sacrifices restored. This would make the sacrifice made by Christ vain, and the restored sacrifices could only be offered by a tribe that does not exist today.

 All the Law of Moses restored and observed in ALL details. See Galatians 2:16; 3:3; 3:10-11; 3;18; 3:20-21; 3:25; 3:8-11; 5:1-4.

 If literally interpreted, a conversion of Gentiles to the Law of Moses, away from Christianity, will take place.

 If all the passages used by Millennialists were taken literally as they say they should be, some passages would contradict others.

 When Millennialists interpret this passage literally and then misapply it to the Millennium, no Gentiles, no aliens, no Canaanite, no foreigner, no uncircumcised will be allowed in the restored Jerusalem or the temple [Joel 3:17-18; Ezekiel 44:9; Zechariah 14:21]. THEN WILL ONLY JEWS BE IN THE MILLENNIUM?

 Others passages say "all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called" [Amos 9:10-11] "all Nations" [Isaiah 2:2-3; See Acts 15:24; Galatians 2:16].

 ZECHARIAH 9:9-10

 Zechariah -------------- versus -- Millennialists

 Salvation, deminion -- versus -- failure

 "Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, your king comes unto you; he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon an ass, even upon a colt the foal of an ass. And I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the house from Jerusalem; and the battle bow shall be cut off; and he shall speak peace unto the nations; and his dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth" [Zechariah 9:9-10].

 Christ says this is fulfilled - Most Millennialists say it failed because of the rejection of Christ.

 "Now this is come to pass, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophet, saying, tell you the daughter of Zion, behold, your King comes unto you, meek, and riding upon a colt the foal of an ass" [Matthew 21:4-5].

 ZECHARIAH 14:4 Some Millennialists uses this passage and say "in that day" means Christ will stand on the earth on the Mount of Olives. "In that day" and "that day" are used about 23 times in Zechariah and often in Isaiah, Jeremiah and through out the Old Testament, and not one time is it speaking of the Millennium. In no place does "that day" mean a literal thousand years. "IN THAT DAY there will be great mourning in Jerusalem" [Zechariah 12:11] does not mean there will be mourning "for a thousand years" in the Millennium.

 How could anyone know "in that day" means "for a thousand years" in this passage when it does not in many others that it is used when there is nothing in the passage that would make "in that day" be "for a thousand years"? But "day" must be changed to "a thousand years" and be made to be speaking of the Millenniums even if God did not know Christ would fail; if not, there would be no Millenniums.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 DANIEL 9: THE SEVENTY WEEKS

 THE ONLY SURE THING ABOUT THE MILLENNIUM TIME LINE (sixty-nine weeks, the gap, the seventh week which is the seven years of the Rapture, then the thousand years) IS THAT IT IS NOT FROM DANIEL 9 OR THE BIBLE. Larry Hariman says, "I want to make it clear, that I do not believe my interpretations and applications of various scriptural passages are inerrant. While I have held to the general Historic Premillennial position now for several years, I am constantly fine tuning it (and even slightly altering it) as God shows me things from his Word. That is to say that this is not the final word on the subject." Is he not saying that God is going to show him things from His word that will be different from what God has now shown him from His word? OR IS HE SAYING THE MILLENNIAL VIEW HE IS NOW TEACHING IS NOT FROM THE BIBLE, BUT SOME DAY GOD WILL SHOW HIM THE VIEW THAT IS IN THE BIBLE? OR THAT GOD HAS SHOWN HIM SOME TRUTHS NOW BUT LATTER GOD WILL SAY THE TRUTHS THAT HAVE NOW BEEN SHOWN HIM WILL NO LONGER BE TRUTHS AND MUST BE ALTERED? Then he says he is sure some Historic Premillennialists will have differing points of view. IS HE NOT SAYING GOD HAS SHOWN THEM CONFLICTING TRUTHS AND THAT GOD HAS THEM ALL TEACHING CONFLICTING TRUTHS SIMULTANEOUSLY? IN ALL THE TIME LINES I HAVE READ, THEY ALL HAVE DIFFERING POINTS OF VIEW. I HAVE FOUND NO TWO THAT ARE THE SAME. "I would be difficult or impossible to find anyone whose view of the Seventy Weeks prophecy does not rest, as to some one or more essential features thereof, upon mere human authority" Philip Mauro, "The Seventy Week and the Great Tribulation" 1921.

 DANIEL'S 70 WEEKS. Daniel 9 may be the third most used passage by Millennialists after Matthew 24 and Revelation 20. Christ quoted Daniel 9:27 and applied it to the destruction of Israel [Matthew 24:15]. Jesephus also applied Daniel 9 to the destruction of Israel [Antiq. 10. 11. 7].

 The Millennium time line for the 70 weeks

 From 445 B. C. to the death of Christ - 69 weeks=483 days - years.

 A GAP they call the Church Age that they say was not foreseen in the Old Testament (This gap has lasted two-thousand years and is still going on). We are told the "Church Age" was not planned by God, but when the Jews rejected Christ as their king, the kingdom was put off the "Church Age" was added to last only unto the Rapture.

 The 70th week=7 years. The 7 years of the Rapture.

 "A day equals a year" theory. The hundreds of times "day" is used in the Old Testament, only two times it is used where some say that a "day" equals a year [Numbers 14:34; Ezekiel 4:4-6], and there is nothing in Daniel 9 that would indicate that is does.

 If a "day" equals a "year" then they make there own claim that all prophecies are to be taken literally not be true by making "day" be used figuratively.

 "Day" in Genesis one does not equal a year.

 In the 70 years in Jeremiah 25:11, a day does not equal a year.

 In the 65 years in Isaiah 7:8, a day does not equal a year.

 In the 70 years in Daniel 9:2, a day is not a year. Israel was in captivity 70 years, not 24,200 years.

 The 1,290 days or the 1,335 days of Daniel 12:11 is not 1,335 years.

 In Daniel 1:12; 1:14; 1:15; 1:18; 2:28; 2:44; 5:1; 6:7; 6:10; 6:12; 6:13; 7:9; 7:13; 7:22; 8:14; 8:26;. 8:27; 9:7; 9:15; 10:2; 10:4; 10:12; 10:13; 10:14; 10:14; 11:20; 11:23; 12:11; 12:12; 12:13 a day does not equal a year. Etc., etc., etc. For hundreds of times in the Old Testament "day" does not equal a "year."

 There own claim that a "day" equals a "year" in prophecy, and all prophecies are to be taken literally makes their seven years of tribulation be 2,555 days which equals 2,555 years, and their thousand year Millennium is 365,000 days which equals 365,000 years. Do they get to pick when a "day" is used figuratively to equals a "year" in prophecy and when a day is used literally to be a day? When Millennialists use "day" figuratively to be a "year," do they not make their own rule that all prophecies are to be taken literally void and null?

 The 69 weeks would be 483 days, which they teach would be 483 years. If the death of Christ were in A. D. 29 as many believe, this would make the 69 weeks end in A. D. 29 and would make the death of Christ and the stopping of "sacrifice and grain offering" be in the middle of the 70th week. What do they say would have happened at the end of the 70th week if God has not stopped the clock? Nothing, but they add a "gap" which they say God or the prophets did not know about; but the destruction of Jerusalem, which is in Daniel's 70 weeks [Daniel 9:26-27, Matthew 24:15], would have to be moved out of the 70 weeks unto weeks after the 70 weeks had ended [moved to about 6 weeks and 5 days-40 years after the 70th week had ended]. The destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70 is in Daniel's 70 weeks, but the Millennium theory put it in the "gap" which they say was not foreseen and was not known about by God, and not known about by any of the prophets.

 WEEK OR SEVEN?

 Shahvooag is used in the Old Testament 19 times. Ezekiel 45:21 says, "The Passover, a feast of seven (shahvooag) days." It is obvious that week could not be a translation of shahvooag, "A feast of week days."

 Word # 7651, "A prim cardinal number; seven (as the sacred full one); also (adv.) seven times; by impl, a week; by extens, an indefinite number: -- (+by) seven."

 Young's Analytical Concordance To The Bible, page 1041, (spells "shahvooag" as "shabua") says, "shabua - seven, a week."

 "...but time periods of different lengths symbolized by seven sevens, sixty-two seven, and one seven (or heptad)." Homer Hailey, A Commentary On Daniel, Page 193, Nevada Publications, 2001. (A heptad means "a group of seven").

 Daniel 9:24 (New International Version, 1978) "Seventy 'sevens' are decreed for your people and your holy city."

 (Revised English Bible, 1989) "Seventy times seven years are marked out for your people and your holy city."

 (The Message, 1993) "Seventy sevens are set for your people and for your holy city."

 (New Living Translation, 1996) "A period of seventy sets of seven has been decreed for your people and your holy city."

 (New International Version - UK, 1994) "Seventy 'sevens' are decreed for your people and your holy city."

 (Today's New International Version, 2005) "Seventy 'sevens' are decreed for your people and your holy city."

 The 70 years of captivity [Jeremiah 29:10; Daniel 9:2] was about over. In chapter 9:3-19 Daniel points out how God had done more for Israel than any other people in the whole earth, yet they had over and over sinned and "been wicked." The angel Gabriel gave Daniel a revelation, the 70 years of captivity was to be followed by a period of seventy sevens (shahvooags), a period of time 7 times as long as the captivity which would bring "a complete destruction" [Daniel 9:27]. Seven times the 70 year captivity equals 490 years; one seven for each of the 70 years of captivity. Seven is used through out the Bible for completeness, fullness, perfection. See Matthew 18:22 where the same number is used.

 This Seventy sevens is made up of 3 periods.

 7 sevens which would be 49 years.

 62 sevens which would be 434 years.

 1 seven which would be 7 years.

 Total 490 years. This is the same number of years as "a day equals a year theory" but "day" is not in Daniel 9, neither is the theory. The 70 years captivity was literal years, not weeks. There was no change from years to weeks which then must be changed back to years.

 THE SEVEN SEVENS - 49 YEARS

 "From the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem"

 A number of dates have been given for the beginning of the 49 years.

 The decree of Cyrus in 536 B. C.

 The decree of Darius Hystapsis in 519 B. C.

 The first decree of Artaxerxes Longimanus in 457 B. C.

 The second decree of Artaxerxes Longimanus in 444 or 445 B. C.

 If you count from John the Baptist, as some do, to make the "stop to sacrifice" [Daniel 9:27] be at the death of Christ, [in the middle of the 70th week] it would go back to about 459 B. C.

 These dates are mostly based on the canon of Ptolemy, a heathen writer of the second century and obscure historical records. There is no reliable historical chronology of the period from Cyrus to Christ. Ptolemy's estimate of 205 years has caused problems with many writers in finding something 483 years from the Baptism of Christ. For those who use Ussher's chronology, a starting year after Cyrus must be found. The estimated dates given by men can be wrong, but a date given by God cannot. If, as many believe, the Baptism of Christ was about B. C. 4, the starting date of this revelation to Daniel was 483 years before B. C. 4; or about 487 B. C. using God's chronology.

 THE DECREE OF CYRUS

 In Isaiah 44:26 to 45:25 God gives the promise that Jerusalem would be rebuilt and named Cyrus as the one who would rebuild it. By the chronology of man this was about 200 years before Cyrus was king. "It is I who say of Cyrus, 'he is My shepherd! and he will perform all My desire,' And he declares of Jerusalem, 'She will be built,' and of the temple, Your foundation will be laid.' Thus says the Lord to Cyrus His anointed, whom I have taken by the right hand, to subdue nations before him, and to loose the loins of kings; to open doors before him so that gates will not shut: I will go before you and make the rough places smooth; I will shatter the doors of bronze, and cut through their iron bars. And I will give you the treasures of darkness, and hidden wealth of secret places, in order that you may know that I, the Lord, the God of Israel, who calls you by your name. For the sake of Jacob My servant, and Israel My chosen one, I have also called you by your name; I have given you a title of honor thought you have not known Me" [Isaiah 44:28 to 45:4]. "I have aroused him in righteousness, and I will make all his ways smooth; he will build My city, and will let go My captives" [Isaiah 45:13].

 Cyrus was to rebuild the city

 And let the captive Jews return

 THE FULFILLMENT OF THIS 200 YEAR OLD DECREE

 2 Chronicles 36:22-23: "Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Jehovah stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth has Jehovah, the God of heaven, given me; and he has charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whosoever there is among you of all his people, Jehovah his God be with him, and let him go up."

 Ezra 1:1-4: "Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Jehovah stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth has Jehovah, the God of heaven, given me; and he has charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whosoever there is among you of all his people, his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of Jehovah, the God of Israel (he is God), which is in Jerusalem. And whosoever is left, in any place where he sojourns, let the men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts, besides the freewill-offering for the house of God which is in Jerusalem."

 Cyrus returned to the house of the Lord the articles which Nebuchadnezzar has carried away [Ezra 1:7-11]. Ezra 2 gives the number that returned. Through out the rest of the book Ezra speaks of Jerusalem as an existing city. "And to give us a wall in Judah and Jerusalem" [Ezra 9:9]. The captivity was over and the temple had been rebuilt. "And they finished building according to the command of the God of Israel and the decree of Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxas king of Persia. And the temple was completed on the third day of the month of Adar; it was the sixth year of the reign of king Darius"[Ezra 6:15]. The decree to rebuild the temple was completed by Darius. Damage done by the enemies of the Jews to the walls was repaired in Nehemiah chapter 1 - 3, but this repairing of the walls that had already been rebuild was not the restoring after the 70 year captivity.

 THE 62 SEVENS - 434 YEARS

 So far as the prophecy of the angel Gabriel in chapter 9 is concerned, this period of time was uneventful. The 434 years was to bring Israel up the last seven. Daniel 11 foretells some of the events of this period.

 THE 1 SEVEN - 7 YEARS

 "The anointed one, the prince" Wigram gives four passages where "prince" is used, all four have reference to the death, resurrection and ascension of Christ. Prince (arkeegos), "Wigram Englishmen's Greek Concordance" page 84.

 "And killed the Prince (arkeegos) of life; whom God raised from the dead" [Acts 3:15].

 "Him did God exalt with his right hand to be a Prince (arkeegos) and a Saviour, to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins" [Acts 5:31].

 "For it became him, for Whom are all things, and through Whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the Captain (Greek Prince - arkeegos) of their salvation perfect through sufferings" [Hebrews 2:10 King James Version].

 "Looking unto Jesus, the Author (Greek Prince - arkeegos) and Finisher of faith, Who, for the joy that was set before Him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God" [Hebrews 12:2].

 Who can know why the translators translated this Greek word that is used four times into three English words that have completely difference meaning.

 "The woman said unto Him, I know that Messiah comes (He that is called Christ): when He is come, He will declare unto us all things. Jesus said unto her, I that speak unto your am He" [John 4:25].

 THE BEGINNING OF THE SEVENTIETH SEVEN

 The coming of John the Baptist was told about in Isaiah 40:3-11; Malachi 3:1; 4:5-6. Christ begins His work at His baptism [Acts 1:21-22;10:36-37; 13:24]. It was at His baptism that "the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming upon him; and lo, a voice out of the heavens, saying, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased" [Matthew 3:16-17]. "...with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and went out among us, beginning from the baptism of John unto the day that he was received up form us" [Acts 1:22]. It was "after the baptism which John preached; even Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power: who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him" [Acts 10:37-38]. Also Mark 1:15; Luke 12:56; 19:41-44. At the baptism of Christ the 69 sevens were over and the 70th seven begin.

 "Seventy sevens have been decreed for your people and your holy city." All six things listed in Daniel 9:11-24 took place in the first half the the seventieth seven.

 "To finish the transgression" of Israel not obeying God [Daniel 9:11-16] which ended with their betrayal and crucifixion of their Messiah [Matthew 23:32; 1 Thessalonians 2:15-16]. The sixty-nine sevens brought us unto Christ, but not unto His death by which Israel finished their transgression.

 "To make an end of sin" by Christ making an atonement for sins [Hebrews 1:3; 10:12]. "To make an end of sins; rather twafj thlw ulehathem chataoth, 'to make an end of sin-offerings'" Adam Clarke.

 "To make atonement for iniquity" by His death and resurrection which our Lord did when he offered Himself on the cross once for all. [Hebrews 9:23-10:10; Romans 5:8-11].

 "To bring in everlasting righteousness" in the kingdom of God [Matthew 6:33; Romans 14:17; 1 Corinthians 1:30].

 "To seal up vision and prophecy" After the days of the Apostles there has not been visions and prophecies in the church. "To seal up (tjlw velachtom, 'to finish or complete') the vision and prophecy; that is, to put an end to the necessity of any farther revelations, by completing the canon of Scripture, and fulfilling the prophecies which related to his person, sacrifice, and the glory that should follow" Adam Clarke.

 "And to anoint the most holy place" [Daniel 9:24]. The coming of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost was an anointing of the spiritual temple, the church [2 Corinthians 1:22] which is "The temple of the living God" [2 Corinthians 6:16-18].

 "Then after the sixty-two sevens (shahvooag) the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing" [Daniel 9:26; Isaiah 53:8]. If the seventieth seven was put of and we are now in the unmentioned "gap" between the sixty-ninth and the seventh seven, waiting for the seventieth seven to come, none of the six things listed above could have come to pass. As Philip Mauro puts it, "The strongest magnifying glass fails to reveal the slightest sign of such a remarkable 'break'...Where those who assert it obtain their information is a deep mystery to us."

 The seventieth seven ended when the Gospel was preached to the Gentiles in Acts 10; when the kingdom was no longer for Jews only, but all who believed, no longer the earthly kingdom of Israel, but a spiritual kingdom. God's "holy nation" [1 Peter 2:9] is now composed of all believes, not the nation of Israel which did not receive Him [John 1:11-13].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 "And on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate, even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed, is poured out on the one who makes desolate" [Daniel 9:27]. Christ applied this to the destruction of Israel [Matthew 24:15]. Jesephus applied this to the destruction of Israel in A. D. 70.

 "It is not difficult to gather the meaning of the passage. Indeed, so far as we are aware, all expositors agree that it foretells the exterminating judgment of God, which in due time was executed by the Roman armies under Titus, by whom the city was overwhelmed as 'with a flood' (a figure often used for an invading army), and the city and the land were given over to the age -- long 'desolations,' which had been 'determined' in the counsels of God. Doubtless the Lord had this very passage in mind when, speaking of the then approaching siege and destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans, He said: 'For these be the days of vengeance, that all things that are written may be fulfilled' (Lu. 21:22). The 'things that are written' were the things foretold in this verse of the prophecy (Dan. 9:26), which were 'fulfilled' at that time. The Lord's words recorded in Matthew 23:32- 36, and Luke 19:43, 44, also refer to the calamities foretold in Daniel 9:26, it will be clearly seen by turning to those passages. The following then is the meaning we derive from the text of the A. V. and R.V.: That the people of a 'prince' (i. e., a leader or commander), who was to come with arms against Judea and Jerusalem, would utterly destroy both the city and the temple; that the destruction thereof should be as if a flood had swept everything away; that to the end there should be war; and that 'desolations' for the land and city were definitely 'determined.' Thus, the entire prophecy of the Seventy Weeks embraces in its scope the rebuilding of the city and the temple, and the final destruction of both. It covers the stretch of time from the restoration of the people to their land and city in the first year of Cyrus, down to their dispersion by the Romans among all the nations of the world." Philip Mauro, "The Seventy Weeks And The Great Tribulation," 1921.

 According to the Millennium theory, a second "one who makes desolate, even until a complete destruction," must come thousands of years after the first "one who makes desolate, even until a complete destruction."

 According to the Millennium theory, God planned on setting up the kingdom when Christ came, He did not know that the Jews were going to reject Christ as their king, therefore, He did not know about the destruction of Jerusalem. Therefore, the death of Christ or the destruction of Jerusalem could not have been in Daniel's 70 weeks unless Daniel knew more than God. NOTHING ABOUT THE DEATH OF CHRIST, "THE CHURCH AGE," OR ANYTHING IN THE CHURCH COULD BE IN THE OLD TESTAMENT FOR, ACCORDING TO SOME MILLENNIALISTS. GOD DID NOT KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT. THEREFORE, NOTHING FROM THE DEATH OF CHRIST UNTO AFTER HE COMES A SECOND TIME COULD HAVE BEEN FORETOLD IN THE OLD TESTAMENT. ACCORDING TO SOME MILLENNIALISTS,

 NOTHING ABOUT THE REJECTION, DEATH OR RESURRECTION OF CHRIST

 NOTHING ABOUT BEING SAVED BY THE BLOOD OF CHRIST

 NOTHING ABOUT THE CHURCH OR THE NEW COVENANT

 NOTHING ABOUT A. D. 70

 BUT, MAYBE EVEN MORE IMPORTANCE TO THE MILLENNIUM THEORY IS THAT THE REJECTION OF CHRIST BY THE JEWS AND THE POSTPONEMENT OF THE KINGDOM NOT BEING KNOWN ABOUT BY GOD MAKES IT IMPASSABLE FOR ANYTHING ABOUT THE MILLENNIUM TO BE IN ANY PART OF THE OLD TESTAMENT FOR GOD WOULD NOT HAVE KNOWN ABOUT THE MILLENNIUM OR ABOUT THE "GAP" THEORY OR ANYTHING THAT HAPPENS IN IT.

 ANYTHING MILLENNIALISTS SAY WILL BE IN THE THOUSAND YEARS COULD NOT AND WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN KNOWN ABOUT BY GOD OR ANYONE BEFORE THE JEWS REJECTED JESUS. Yet, they use many Old Testament passages to prove the Millennium theory!!!

 THE "GAP" THEORY IS NOT FOUND IN THE BIBLE BUT WAS MADE UP IN AN ATTEMPT TO MAKE THE 70 WEEKS FIT THE TIME LINE. It had to be made up to make their time line work, but they still have problems with their time line. The word "rapture" is not in the Bible and none of the doctrines of the rapture, the rapture before, in the middle of or after the thousand years is not in the Bible and is pure fiction.

 IF THE 70TH WEEK HAS NOT COME BECAUSE IT WAS POSTPONED AND WE ARE NOW IN THE "GAP," THE MIDDLE OF THE 70TH WEEK HAS NOT COME, THEREFORE, "BUT IN THE MIDDLE OF THE WEEK HE WILL PUT A STOP TO SACRIFICE AND GRAIN OFFERING" [Daniel 9:27]. If the death of Christ was not known about by God, if Christ has not been put to death as a sacrifice for sin [Hebrews 9:26], how would Christ have put a stop to sacrifice and grain offering in the middle of the 70th week without His death?

 If three and a half years ["In the middle of the week" Daniel 9:27] of the 70th week had passed before God stopped the prophetic clock, how is the rapture to be seven years when half of the seven years had passed before the clock was stopped and there had been no rapture?

 If the 70th week is the seven-year rapture, what would the 70th week of Daniel's vision have been if the Jews had not rejected Christ and God had not stopped the clock? If Christ had restored Israel as Millennialists tell up it was God's plain to restore Israel right up to the time Christ was rejected, there would have been no church to be raptured away for seven years? They must have God changing the vision of Daniel to something completely different from what it was before Christ was rejected for according to them the church was an unknown afterthought, and the 70th week could not have been the rapture or an unknown afterthought. Daniel could not have told of something that was unknown about by God. THE 70TH WEEK COULD NOT BE THE UNKNOWN ABOUT RAPTURE OF THE UNKNOWN ABOUT CHURCH.

 Many Millennialists teach all of the 70th week is still to come, that the Antichrist is the one spoken of, and he will make a covenant with Israel, rebuild the temple and restore sacrifices, but after three and a half years he will break his covenant and cause the sacrifices to cease. NOT ONLY WOULD THIS LEAVE CHRIST OUT OF THE 70 WEEKS BUT IT IS MADE TO BE SPEAKING OF SOMETHING THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN UNKNOWN TO DANIEL IF THE REJECTION OF CHRIST, AND THE CHURCH WAS UNKNOWN OF IN THE OLD TESTAMENT AND THE CHURCH WAS ONLY AN AFTERTHOUGHT. BOTH THE RAPTURE AND THE ANTICHRIST WOULD HAVE BEEN UNKNOWN OF BY DANIEL AND GOD.

 If the death of Christ were in the middle of the 70th week or if the 70th week is a seven-year rapture, there is no way they can get the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70 in the 70th week are anywhere in the 70 weeks. It will not fit into their time line.

 THAT GOD STOPPED THE PROPHETIC CLOCK WITH A LONG "GAP" IS A MUST FOR PREMILLENNIALISTS. WITHOUT THIS "GAP" THE PROPHECY OF THE KINGDOM WOULD HAVE BEEN FULFILLED IN THE FIRST CENTURY, NOT IN TODAY'S NEW PAPERS.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 12

 NEW TESTAMENT PASSAGES USED BY MILLENNIALISTS

 PART ONE

 SCRIPTURES ABOUT THE DESTRUCTION OF ISRAEL BEFORE THE REJECTION OF CHRIST

 Israel's destruction, her weeping, gnashing of teeth, outer darkness

 Many of the passages spoken by John the Baptist and by Jesus about Israel's rejection of Christ and its destruction are misapplied to Hell. Matthew 24 is often misused to prove Israel will be restored, and Christ will return to earth and rule the world forever from Jerusalem and that the saved will forever live on this earth, not in Heaven.

 JUDGMENT OF ISRAEL Matthew 21-25

 Cleaning of the Temple Matthew 21:12-16

 The fig tree Matthew 21:18-22

 Israel's rulers question Christ's authority. Parable of the two sons Matthew 21:23-32

 Parable of the wicked husbandman who Christ will destroy and give the vineyard to another Matthew 21:33-41

 The stone Israel rejected made head of the corner; the stone will scatter as dust. The kingdom taken from Israel and gave to another Matthew 21:42-46

 Parable of the marriage feast. His armies destroyed those invited and invited others Matthew 22:1-14

 Seven woe's on Israel leaders, how can they escape the judgment of Gehenna; all these things shall come upon this generation. Matthew 23:13-36

 Their house left desolate Matthew 23:37-39

 The questions and His answer Matthew 24:1-51

 Parable of the fig tree. This generation shall not pass away, till all these things be accomplished Matthew 24:32-34

 Israel the unfaithful servant Matthew 24:45-51

 Unprofitable servant cast into outer darkness Matthew 25:30

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 THE JEWS THAT CAME TO JOHN THE BAPTIST. "But when he saw the PHARISEES AND SADDUCEES coming to his baptism, HE SAID UNTO THEM, YOU offspring of vipers, WHO WARNED YOU TO FLEE FROM THE WRATH TO COME? Bring forth; therefore, fruit worthy of repentance: and think not to say within yourselves, WE HAVE ABRAHAM TO OUR FATHER: for I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to rise up children unto Abraham. AND EVEN NOW THE AXE LIES AT THE ROOT OF THE TREES: every tree; therefore, that brings not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. I indeed baptize you in water unto repentance; but he that comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit and in fire: whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor; and he will gather his wheat into the garner, BUT THE CHAFF HE WILL BURN UP WITH UNQUENCHABLE FIRE" [Matthew 3:7-12]. John was the Elijah that was to come [Matthew 17:11; 11:10]. Cutting down a tree or forest is a common symbol of judgment and destruction of cities and nations in the Old Testament [Isaiah 10:34; Jeremiah 46:22-23; 22:7-8; Ezekiel 31:3-14]. If a tree is cut down, there is hope that it will sprout again from the stump [Job 14:7-8; Isaiah 11:1], but when the axe is put to the root there is no hope that the tree will ever sprout again.

 Adam Clarke says this is "the desolation which was about to fall on the Jewish nation."

 Lightfoot: "By the axe being now laid to the root of the tree, may fitly be understood, first, the certainty of their desolation; and second, the nearness, in that the instrument of their destruction as already prepared, and brought close to them; the Romans that should ruin their city and nation, being already master and rulers over them."

 B. W. Johnson: "Think not to say...we have Abraham to our father. They believed that Abraham's race was to be saved, if all else was destroyed...'The axe is laid at the root of the tree.' A sign that the tree is to be cut down. The tree meant is the Jewish nation. Every tree. A fruitless fig tree was afterward made by our Lord to representative of the whole Jewish nation (Luke 13:6)." Also, Matthew 3:10-12 "And with fire. The term fire is used in verse 10, and there means a destroying agency; it is used again in verse 12 in the same sense; it is used in verse 11, also, the intervening verse, and must be used in exactly the same sense as in the other two verses. It cannot mean a curse in verses 10 and 12, and a blessing in verse 11, without a word of explanation. It is strange, therefore, that all commentators should not agree that the baptism of fire is a baptism of trial and suffering. THERE WERE TWO CLASSES BEFORE JOHN. SOME WOULD REPENT AND BE BAPTIZED FINALLY IN THE HOLY SPIRIT; THERE WERE OTHERS WHO WOULD REMAIN IMPENITENT, AND BE BAPTIZED IN THE AWFUL TRIALS THAT WOULD COME UPON ISRAEL" B. W. Johnson, "The People New Testament With Notes," 1889, Gospel Light Publishing Company.

 "But the SONS OF THE KINGDOM shall be cast forth into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth" [Matthew 8:12]. Even according to those who believe in Hell, no one is cast out of Heaven, BUT WHEN THIS "WEEPING AND THE GNASHING OF TEETH" IS MADE TO BE AFTER THE JUDGMENT IN HELL, IT IS THE "SONS OF THE KINGDOM" THAT ARE CAST INTO THE OUTER DARKNESS. IN TRYING TO PROVE THE OUTER DARKNESS IS HELL, SOME ARE MADE TO BE CAST OUT OF HEAVEN INTO HELL AFTER THE JUDGMENT. If "and yourselves cast forth without" is cast into Hell where those who believe in Hell say the "weeping and gnashing of tenth" will be, THEN THIS MAKES THOSE FROM THE EAST AND WEST GO TO HEAVEN AFTER THE JUDGMENT DAY. THEY HAVE SOME GOING INTO HEAVEN, AND SOME BEING CAST OUT OF HEAVEN AFTER THE KINGDOM HAS BEEN DELIVERED UP TO GOD, THEREFORE, AFTER THE JUDGMENT. This is more than those trying to prove Hell want to prove, for they do not think any will be cast out of Heaven after the judgment and no one who is in Heaven after the judgment will go to Hell so why is this passage used in a way that makes it prove there will be some cast out of Heaven after the judgment?

 J. W. McGarvey, Matthew 8:11: "AND I SAY UNTO YOU, THAT MANY SHALL COME FROM THE EAST AND THE WEST, AND SHALL SIT DOWN WITH ABRAHAM, AND ISAAC, AND JACOB, IN THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN [Jesus here predicts the conversion of the Gentiles, since that fact is suggested to him by the faith of this centurion. The east and the west represent the extreme points of the compass in the directions in which the world was most thickly inhabited. But Jesus refers rather to spiritual separation than to geographical distances--Mal. i. 11; Isa. xlix. 19; Jer. xvi. 19; Zech. viii. 22.] 12 But The Sons Of The Kingdom [The child of anything in Hebrew phraseology expressed the idea of special property which one has in the thing specified, as, for instance, children of disobedience (Eph. ii. 2). Jesus here means, then, the Jews, to whom the kingdom belonged by hereditary descent--Rom. ix. 4] SHALL BE CAST FORTH INTO THE OUTER DARKNESS: THERE SHALL BE THE WEEPING AND THE GNASHING OF TEETH. [In this paragraph Christ's kingdom is set forth under the simile of a great feast, a familiar simile with Jesus (Matt. xxvi. 29; Luke xxii. 30). The Jews were accustomed to speak of the delights of the Messianic kingdom as a feast with the patriarchs (Luke xiv. 15), but lost sight of the fact that Gentiles should share in its cheer and fellowship (Isa. xxv. 6). Marriage feasts and other great feasts of the Jews were usually held in the evening. Inside, therefore, there would be joy and light and gladness, but outside there would be darkness and disappointment, tears and bitter self-reproach (Matt. xxv. 10-13). The despised outcasts should be brought in and placed at the festal board, while the long-invited guests-the natural and fleshly heirs of Abraham's invitation-would be excluded (Matt. xxi. 43)." The Fourfold Gospel, Page 272, 1914, Standard Publishing Company.

 J. W. McGarvey, Luke 13:28 28: "There shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth, when you shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, AND YOURSELVES CAST FORTH without. 29 And they shall come from the east and west, and from the north and south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. 30 And behold [little as you may think it], they are last who shall be first, and they are first who shall be last. A familiar proverb of Christ's (Matt. xix. 30; xx. 10), to be interpreted by such passages as Matt. xxi. 31 and Rom. ix. 30, 31. The Jew who thought the Gentile had no hope at all, and that he himself was sure of salvation, would be surprised to find that his opinion was the very reverse of the real fact as time developed it]." The Fourfold Gospel, 1914, Standard Publishing Company. The Jews were cast forth OUT OF THE KINGDOM, but nothing is said about CASTING INTO "HELL."

 B. W. Johnson, Matthew 8:12: "BUT THE CHILDREN OF THE KINGDOM. The Jews, the natural children of Abraham, the 'Father of the faithful,' heirs of the promises made to him. CAST OUT because they rejected the Messiah, in whom all the promises center. INTO OUTER DARKNESS" The People's New Testament With Notes, Gospel Light Publishing Company.

 THE THREE TIMES "OUTER DARKNESS" IS USED BY CHRIST [Matthew 8:12; 22:13; 25:30], ARE IN THREE PARABLES, WHICH REFER TO GOD'S DEALING WITH THE JEWS BEING CAST OUT AS GOD'S CHOSEN PEOPLE. IT HAS BEEN CHANGED TO BE THE LOST IN HELL ARE IN OUTER DARKNESS. THE SEVEN TIMES [Matthew 8:12; 13:42; 13:50; 22:13; 24:51; 25:30; Luke 13:28] "WEEPING AND GNASHING OF TEETH" ARE USED BY CHRIST ARE ALSO ABOUT THE JEWS BEING CAST OUT AS GOD'S CHOSEN PEOPLE. IT ALSO HAS BEEN CHANGED TO BE THE LOST IN HELL THAT ARE WEEPING AND GNASHING THEIR TEETH. Although many of the wisest preachers and writers whose writings have stood the test of time like B. W. Johnson, J. W. McGarvey, Adam Clarke, Lightfoot, H. Leo Boles, Barnes, R. C. H. Lenski and many others say the "weeping and gnashing of teeth" is speaking of the Jews being rejected as God's chosen people, some still misuse this as did Stephen Wiggins in the Firm Foundation, 2006, Page 6. Gehenna is not even in any of the same passages. If he did any study, it would be difficult to believe he did not know the weeping and gnashing of teeth has no reference to "Hell." Is this not just a desperate attempt to find a passage that teaches eternal torment?

 SIX PARABLES CONDEMNING ISRAEL

 [1]. ISRAEL, THE FRUITLESS FIG TREE [Luke 13:6-9]. "And he spoke this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came seeking fruit thereon, and found none. And he said unto the vinedresser, behold, these three years I came seeking fruit on this fig tree, and found none: cut it down; why does it also cumber the ground? And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it: and if it bear fruit thenceforth, well; BUT IF NOT, YOU SHALL CUT IT DOWN." Barren national Israel would be cut down. "And seeing a fig tree by the way side, he came to it, and found nothing thereon, but leaves only; and he said unto it, Let there be no fruit from you hence forward forever." [Matthew 21:18-19].

 [2]. THE RICH MAN AND LAZARUS [Luke 16:19-31] See "Part Two" of this chapter.

 [3]. THE TWO SONS [Matthew 21:28-32]. "But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in the vineyard. And he answered and said, I will, sir; and he did not go. And he came to the second and said the same thing. But, he answered and said, I will not; yet he afterward regretted it and went. Which of the two did the will of his father? They said, the latter. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to YOU the tax-gatherers and harlots will get into the kingdom of God before YOU. For John came to YOU in the way of righteousness and YOU did not believe him; but the tax-gatherers and harlots did believe him; and YOU, seeing this, did not ever feel remorse afterward so as to believe him."

 [4]. ISRAEL, THE HUSBANDMAN [Matthew 21:33-45]. "Hear another parable: there was a man that was a householder, who planted a vineyard, and set a hedge about it, and dug a winepress in it, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandman, and went into another country. And when the season of the fruits drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandman, to receive his fruits. And the husbandman took his servants, and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another. Again, he sent other servants more than the first: and they did unto them in like manner. But, afterward he sent unto them his son, saying, they will reverence my son. But the husbandman, when they saw the son, said among themselves, this is the heir; come, let us kill him, and take his inheritance. And they took him, and cast him forth out to the vineyard, and killed him. When; therefore, the lord of the vineyard shall come, what will he do unto these husbandman? They say unto him, HE WILL MISERABLY DESTROY THOSE MISERABLE MEN, AND WILL LET OUT THE VINEYARD UNTO OTHER HUSBANDMEN, who shall render him the fruits in their seasons, Jesus said unto them, did you never read in the scriptures, the stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the head of the corner: this was from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes? THEREFORE SAY I UNTO YOU, THE KINGDOM OF GOD SHALL BE TAKEN AWAY FROM YOU, AND SHALL BE GIVEN TO A NATION BRINGING FORTH THE FRUITS THEREOF. And he that falls on this stone shall be broken to pieces: BUT, ON WHOMSOEVER IT SHALL FALL, IT WILL SCATTER HIM AS DUST. And when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, THEY PERCEIVED THAT HE SPOKE OF THEM" Israel was scattered as dust in A. D. 70 when no Jews were left in Jerusalem or the country around it. Most millennialists admit that this refers to the Jewish rejection of Christ. THE KINGDOM WAS TAKEN FROM THE JEWS AND GIVEN TO THE GENTILES AT THE DEATH AND RESURRECTION OF JESUS. Millennialists say it will be taken from the Gentiles and given back to the Jews.

 [5]. THE MARRIAGE FEAST Matthew 22:1-14: "And Jesus answered and spoke to them again in parables, saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king, who gave a wedding feast for his son. And he sent out his slaves to call those who had been invited to the wedding feast, and they were unwilling to come. Again, he sent out other slaves saying, Tell those who have been invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and fattened livestock are all butchered and everything is ready; come to the wedding feast. But, they paid no attention and went their way, one to his own farm, another to his business, and the rest seized his slaves and mistreated them and killed them. BUT, THE KING WAS ENRAGED AND SENT HIS ARMIES, AND DESTROYED THOSE MURDERS, AND SET THEIR CITY ON FIRE. Then he said to his slaves, The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy. Go therefore to the main highways, and as many as you find there, invite to the wedding feast. And those slaves went out into the streets, and gathered together all they found, both evil and good; and the wedding hall was filled with dinner guests. But, when the king came in to look over the dinner guests, he saw there a man not dressed in wedding clothes, and he said to him, Friend, how did you come in here without wedding clothes? And he was speechless. Then the king said to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness; in that place there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen." The Jews killed the prophets God send to them, and they and their city were destroyed and the Gentiles were brought into the kingdom.

 [6]. THE NARROW DOOR Luke 13:24-30 "Strive to enter in by the narrow door: for many, I say unto you, shall seek to enter in, and shall not be able. When once the master of the house is risen up, and has shut the door, and begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, open to us; and he shall answer and say to you, I know you not where you are; then shall you begin to say, we did eat and drink in your presence, and you did teach in our streets; and he shall say, I tell you, I know not were you are; depart from me, all you workers of iniquity. There shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth, WHEN YOU SHALL SEE ABRAHAM, AND ISAAC, AND JACOB, AND ALL THE PROPHETS, IN THE KINGDOM OF GOD, AND YOURSELVES CAST FORTH WITHOUT. AND THERE SHALL COME FROM THE EAST AND THE WEST, AND FROM THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH, AND SHALL SIT DOWN IN THE KINGDOM OF GOD. AND BEHOLD, THERE ARE LAST WHO SHALL BE THE FIRST, AND THERE ARE FIRST WHO SHALL BE LAST" This is about the coming rejection of Israel and the Gentiles being accepted into the kingdom of Heaven, which is the church. Not about some being cast out of Heaven, which is what it would be if the weeping and gnashing of teeth were in Hell. ISRAEL WAS THE "SONS OF THE KINGDOM" ["children of the kingdom" King James Version] THAT WAS CAST INTO OUTER DARKNESS, NOT THOSE WHO NEVER BELIEVED. THE JEWS, WHO WERE THEN THE CHILDREN OF THE KINGDOM, WERE CAST OUT OF THE LIGHT AND ARE NO LONGER GOD'S CHOSEN PEOPLE, INTO THE DARKNESS OF THE WORLD WITHOUT THE LIGHT OF GOD'S REVELATION. "O JERUSALEM...BEHOLD YOUR HOUSE IS LEFT UNTO YOU DESOLATE" [Luke 13:34-35]. Those who believe in Hell leave out the rest of what Christ said in the next two versus when He says the Gentiles will come into the kingdom, and verse 30 the Gentles who were last become first. If this were after the judgment, the Gentiles would be coming into the kingdom in Heaven after the judgment.

 "Therefore say I unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken away from you [the Jews], and shall be given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof" [Matthew 21:43].

 WEEPING AND GNASHING OF TEETH are both used in the Old and New Testament.

 1]. WEEPING for miseries and grief, both for personal miseries and as a nation [too often to list them: use any good concordance]. It is used in the New Testament the same way it was in the Old Testament. See Matthew 2:18; Mark 5:28; Luke 7:38; 8:52: John 11:33; 20:11 Acts 9:39; 21:13; Philippians 3:18 and James 5:1. The weeping is the Jews when they see Israel being cast out as God's chosen people, and Jerusalem and the Temple being destroyed, and the end of their national identity See Matthew 24, Daniel 9 and 10.

 2]. GNASHING OF TEETH shows anger and rage, and is used in both the Old and New Testament. "They hiss and gnash the teeth" Lamentations 2:16, See Psalms 35:16; Micah 3:5. Used the same way in the New Testament. "And they gnashed on him with their teeth" [Acts 7:54]. Those who stoned Stephen were angry with him, not in pain; they were not dead and in Hell, they were alive and on this earth. If gnashing of teeth were in Hell, as many teach it is, who are they going to gnash with their teeth? Does anyone believe some in Hell will be angry with others in Hell and gnash them with their teeth? The gnashing of teeth is their anger and rage towards those doing the destroying [the Roman army], and maybe even toward God for letting it happen. GNASHING OF TEETH IS BECAUSE OF ANGER OR RAGE. IT IS NOT BECAUSE OF THE PERSON DOING THE GNASHING OF HIS OR HER TEETH ARE BEING TORMENTED IN HELL. IN THE BIBLE GNASHING OF TEETH IS ALWAYS BECAUSE OF ANGER IN BOTH THE OLD AND THE NEW TESTAMENT. IT IS MISUSED TODAY TO SHOW TORMENT IN "HELL."

 In the Old Testament: Gnashing of teeth is because of anger on the part of the one doing the gnashing.

 In the New Testament: Gnashing of teeth must be changed to be a person in Hell gnashing his or her teeth because of pain.

 Weeping and gnashing of teeth are two different things, which are sometimes both found together, but most often are not together. Neither one ever occurs in the same passages with hades or Gehenna. That either one or both will be in Hell is an assumption that is preached over and over. Could an immaterial, invisible part of a person gnash its teeth?

 THE CENTURION GENTILE Matthew 8:5-13: "And when he was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, beseeching him, and saying, Lord, my servant lying in the house sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. 7 And he said unto him, I will come and heal him. And the centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof; but only say the word, and my servant shall be healed. For I also am a man under authority, having under myself soldiers: and I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does it. And when Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, NOT IN ISRAEL. And I say unto you, that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven: BUT THE SONS OF THE KINGDOM SHALL BE CAST FORTH INTO THE OUTER DARKNESS: THERE SHALL BE THE WEEPING AND THE GNASHING OF TEETH. And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go your way; as you have believed, [so] be it done unto you. And the servant was healed in that hour." After seeing the faith of this Gentile, Jesus says the Gentiles will sit in the kingdom and the sons [Jews] will be cast forth. The same as at the marriage feast (above), the Jews, because they rejected Christ as their king was cast out of the kingdom. The church, not Israel, is now God's kingdom. Those who teach Hell read the prophecies of Christ about the judgment of Israel in AD 70 and move the weeping and gnashing of teeth to Hell after the Judgment Day is over. They have not found one passage that says anything about the lost after the judgment. Nothing can happen to nothing. After the second death there could be nothing said, for there will be nothing to say anything about. There is a first death, a resurrection from the first death, then the second death, but nothing is said about a third life after the second death. They need something to prove their Hell, and try to make it look as if weeping and gnashing of teeth could only be in Hell; although both weeping and gnashing of teeth are used throughout the Old Testament and those who believe in Hell do not believe weeping and gnashing of teeth in the Old Testament has any reference to a time of punishment after the Judgment Day, but they assume that in the New Testament both are used in reference to punishment in Hell after the judgment day. Weeping and gnashing of teeth has a reference to Hell only when they want or need them to.

 WEEPING AND GNASHING OF TEETH: God says the "wages of sin is death," not an eternal life of weeping and gnashing of teeth in Hell and will go on forever, for there is no death for the soul that cannot die. We would never be able to know that this weeping will be in Hell unless:

 FIRST: Many say that there is a Hell, but there is not one word about it in the Bible.

 SECOND: Then they tell us that this weeping shall be in Hell. How could they know this when there is no passage that says it is in "Hell"?

 Some of the words used by Christ to describe the Jews: blind guides, hypocrites, murderers, adulterous, transgressors, faithless, perverse, fools, generation of snakes. "O JERUSALEM, JERUSALEM...BEHOLD, YOUR HOUSE (the temple Christ had just left) IS LEFT UNTO YOU DESOLATE" [Matthew 23:38].

 B. W. Johnson, Matthew 23:33-39. "The People's New Testament With Notes" Gospel Light Publishing Company, 1889.

 33. You generations of vipers, how can you escape? Etc. Brood of vipers, full of venom, deadly as serpents, treacherous as the lurking serpent. So John had called them nearly four years before (Matt. 3:7).

 34. Wherefore, I send unto you prophets and wise men. In Luke 11:49, is a passage much like this. The men sent were inspired apostles and evangelists. By giving the Jews still further opportunities after the sin of the cross, the guilt of those continued to reject the crucified Lord was aggravated. Prophets. Inspired teachers, like the apostles, Philip, Stephen, etc. Wise men. Faithful, devout and learned, but uninspired preachers. Scribes. Usually, those who copy and teach the wisdom of others, but I suppose also embracing those who wrote the New Testament Scriptures. Some of them you shall kill and crucify. Literally fulfilled in the next few years.

 35. That upon you may come all the righteous blood. Thus would they fill the measure full and become guilty of all the righteous blood shed by the whole army of martyrs. Unto the blood of Zacharias. The reference is probably to 2 Chron. 24:20.

 36. VERILY, I SAY UNTO YOU, ALL THESE THINGS SHALL COME UPON THIS GENERATION. As the Amorites were spared until "their iniquity was full" (Gen. 15:16), so the iniquity of Israel was allowed to accumulate from age to age, till in that generation it came to the full, and the collected vengeance of justice broke at once upon it. So it is often in the destruction of a nation. The French Revolution of 1793 is another example.

 37. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you that kills the prophets. The intense feeling that spoke in this utterance comes out first in the redoubling of the word Jerusalem; next in the picture of the sins of the city which he draws--a city so wicked that it was not content with rejecting the messengers of God, but even slew them. I know of nothing more touching than this apostrophe. How often would I have gathered your children together. Not only had the city been warned again and again by the prophets, but the Lord had visited it at least six or seven times, and had for months taught in its streets. Nor did his solicitude end with the cross. His long suffering, patience and love are shown by his charge in the commission to the apostles: "To preach repentance and remission in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem." You would not. "Would not" explains the cause of the rejection of the gospel. It is not because God in Christ is not ready: he would gather them. It is not because men cannot come, but because they will not come. Christ wished the salvation of Jerusalem; his will was for them to be saved: he sought to influence their wills to make a choice of salvation, but they would not. So God still "is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance" (2 Peter 3:9), but there are many "who will not come to Christ that they might have life" (John 5:40). While God wills the salvation of men, he does not destroy free agency by coercing the human will, but says: "Whosoever will, let him come."

 38. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. This was the consequence of refusing to come to Christ. The temple is the house meant. God will abandon it and leave it desolate. He will no longer accept its worship.

 39. You shall not see me henceforth. This seems to imply that the temple shall be deserted when he leaves it. With his departure the presence of God departs. He was the Lord of the temple. Till you shall say. These were his last words in the temple precincts, but they do not shut out all hope. Even yet when the Jews shall join in the hosannas of those who, on the Sunday before, had sung his praises, and cry, "Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord," they may be permitted to behold their Messiah...When Christ abandoned the temple in Jerusalem, it was only fit for the destroyer.

 "That which Israel seeks for, that he obtained not; but the election obtained it, and the rest were hardened" [Romans 11:7]. Whatever Israel did not obtain, THE ELECT HAD OBTAINED IT AT THE TIME PAUL WROTE THIS. It is not something that will be obtained after the coming of Christ by Israel or anyone. How is anyone saved today, Jew or Gentile? By the Gospel. I was saved when I heard the Gospel and obeyed it. All that are saved are saved in the same way. "For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is THE POWER of God for salvation to EVERYONE who believes, TO THE JEW FIRST and also to the Greek" [Romans 1:16]. Neither a Jew nor a Greek can be saved without believing and obeying the gospel. Today a nation cannot be saved as a nation (Israel or any other nation). All the individuals must believe and obey the Gospel. There is no other way. "But if SOME OF THE BRANCHES were broken off, ["some of the branches," plural, are individuals Jews, not "some of the nations"] and you, being a wild olive, was grafted in among them [among some of the branches, the Jews that believed and were not broken off]...Well; by their unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by your faith...for if God spared not the natural branches [individuals Jews], neither will he spare you [individuals Gentiles, not nations]. Behold then the goodness and severity of God: toward them that fell (individuals, not nations), severity; but toward you, God's goodness; otherwise, you also shall be cut off. And they [individuals Jews] also, if they continue not in their unbelief, shall be grafted in" [Romans 11:17-24]. Many of the believers in the early church were Jews. Paul was a Jew, and he said, "Even so than at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace [at the time Paul was writing this and today some Jews believed]" [Romans 11:4]. Salvation is always available to Jews or Gentiles if they will accept Christ. The law was only a shadow of that which was to come. Israel cannot be restored as a nation without restoring the shadow, including restoring animal sacrifice, etc.

 "There is an individuality about the Christian religion that cannot be dispensed with. Those who accept Christ must do it as individuals, not as a nation. Each one must come to Christ on his own individual faith. He can come in no other way. In this way he can come now; and this is the only way a Gentile, or anyone else can come. The Jews were broken off for unbelief, and they must come in faith. This opportunity they have now, and have always had--they need not expect, or wait for anything more." Dr T. W. Brents, Gospel Sermons, Page 329, 1918, Gospel Advocate Publishing Co.

 "Woe unto you! For you build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them. So you are witnesses and consent unto the works of your fathers: for they kill them, and you build their tombs. Therefore, also said the wisdom of God, I will send unto them prophets and apostles; and some of them they shall kill and persecute; that the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, MAY BE REQUIRED OF THIS GENERATION; from the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary: yea, I say unto you, IT SHALL BE REQUIRED OF THIS GENERATION" [Luke 11:47-51].

 [1] THE LORD'S LAMENT OVER JERUSALEM WHEN HE WAS ON THE ROAD TO JERUSALEM: In Luke 19:41-44 When Jesus drew nigh Jerusalem He wept over the city and tells His disciples of the destruction of it in which His language is similar to Luke 21:5-33. "And when he drew nigh, he saw the city and wept over it, saying, If you had known in this day, even you, the things which belong unto peace! But, now they are hid from your eyes. FOR THE DAYS SHALL COME UPON YOU, WHEN YOUR ENEMIES WILL THROW UP A BANK ABOUT YOU, AND SURROUND YOU, AND HEM YOU IN ON EVERY SIDE, AND WILL LEVEL YOU TO THE GROUND AND YOUR CHILDREN WITHIN YOU; AND THEY SHALL NOT LEAVE IN YOU ONE STONE UPON ANOTHER; because you did not recognize the time of your visitation" [Luke 19:41-44 New American Standard Version].

 [2] IN AN ADDRESS TO THE SCRIBES AND PHARISEE AT JERUSALEM: In Matthew 23 Jesus gives seven woes to the scribes and Pharisees [Matthew 23:13, 15, 16, 23, 25, 27 29] and ends the address with "Verily I say unto you, ALL THESE THINGS SHALL COME UPON THIS GENERATION. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem that kills the prophets, and stones them that are sent unto her! How often would I have gathered your children together, even as a hen gathers her chickens under her wings, and you would not! BEHOLD, YOUR HOUSE IS LEFT UNTO YOU DESOLATE" [Matthew 23:36-38]. In Matthew 24:34 He again says, "THIS GENERATION SHALL NOT PASS AWAY, TILL ALL THESE THINGS BE ACCOMPLISHED." All the woes in Matthew 23 and all the signs of Matthew 24 were to come upon that generation, before that generation passed away.

 "ALL THESE THINGS SHALL COME UPON THIS GENERATION" Christ used "generation" twenty-five times IN REFERENCE TO THE JEWS OF HIS DAY, nine of the twenty-five are in Matthew [Matthew 11:16; 12:39; 12:41; 12:42; 12:45; 16:4; 17:17; 23:36; 24:24]. "But first he (Christ) must suffer many things and be rejected of THIS GENERATION" [Luke 17:25; also Mark 8:12; 8:12; 8:38; 9:19; 13:30; Luke 7:31; 9:41; 11:29; 11:30; 11:31; 11:32; 11:50; 11:51; 16:8; 17:25; 21:32]. "Genea," the Greek word from which "generation" is translated never means "race" as the millennialists contend that it does in Matthew 24:34.

 "Verily I say unto you, THIS GENERATION shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled" King James.

 "I tell you this: THE PRESENT GENERATION will live to see it all." New English Bible.

 "Remember this! All these things will happen before THE PEOPLE NOW LIVING have all died" Today's English Version.

 "I tell you truly, THE PRESENT GENERATION will not pass away, till all this happens" Moffatt's Translation.

 "I tell you in solemn truth that THE PRESENT GENERATION will certainly not pass away until all this has taken place" Weymouth's Translation.

 "THIS GENERATION will not disappear till all this has taken place" Phillips Translation.

 "All these things will take place before THIS PRESENT GENERATION passes on" Modern Language Bible.

 "THE PRESENT GENERATION will not pass away until all this takes place" New American Bible.

 "THE PRESENT GENERATION will not pass away, till all this happens" James Moffat.

 "THIS GENERATION" The generation of Jews in the time of Christ.

 John the Baptist: "O GENERATION OF VIPERS, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?" [Luke 3:7].

 Christ: "O GENERATION OF VIPERS, how can you, being evil, speak what is good?" [Matthew 12:34].

 "But to what shall I liken THIS GENERATION? It is like children sitting in the market places, who call out to the other children, and say, We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we song a dirge, and you did not mourn" [Matthew 11:16-19; Luke 7:31-33].

 Likened to Tyre and Sodom, which would have repented if they had seen the works did in Israel, but Israel would not repent [Matthew 11:20-24].

 "The men of Nineveh shall stand up with THIS GENERATION at the judgment, AND SHALL CONDEMN IT because they repented at the preaching Jonah; and behold, something greater than Jonah is here" [Matthew 12:41].

 "The Queen of the South shall rise up with THIS GENERATION at the judgment AND SHALL CONDEMN IT, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, something greater than Solomon is here" [Luke 12:42].

 Likened to a man from which an unclean spirit went out but returned with seven other spirits that were more wicked. "This is the way it will also be with THIS EVIL GENERATION" [LUKE 1243-45].

 "Why does THIS GENERATION seek for a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign shall be to THIS GENERATION' [Mark 8:12]

 "An EVIL AND ADULTEROUS GENERATION seeks after a sign; and no sign will not be given it, except the sign of Jonah" [Matthew 12:39; 16:4].

 "O UNBELIEVING AND PERVERTED GENERATION, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you?" [Matthew 17:17; Mark 9:19; Luke 9:41].

 "Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send unto them prophets and apostles; and some of them they shall kill and persecute; the blood of all the prophets, which were shed from the foundation of the world, MAY BE REQUIRED OF THIS GENERATION; from the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary: yea, I say unto you, IT SHALL BE REQUIRED OF THIS GENERATION" [Luke 11:49-51].

 "You serpents, you GENERATION OF VIPERS, how can you escape the judgment of Gehenna?" [Matthew 23:33].

 "Truly I say to you, all these things shall come upon THIS GENERATION" [Matthew 23:36].

 "Truly I say unto you, THIS GENERATION shall not pass away till all these things be accomplished" [Matthew 24:34].

 "Truly I say to you, THIS GENERATION shall not pass away until all these things take place" [Mark 13:30]. That generation passed away long ago.

 "But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by THIS GENERATION" [Luke 17:25].

 "Be saved from THIS PERVERSE GENERATION" [Acts 3:40]. This was said before A. D. 70

 "That you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent, children of God above reproach in the midst of A CROOKED AND PERVERSE GENERATION" [Philippians 2:15].

 If "this generation" means "this race" as some millennialists teach, are there forty-two "races" spoken of in Matthew 1:1-17?

 The use of "YOU" clearly identified the "generation" Jesus was speaking to in Matthew 24. When speaking to His disciples Jesus said:

 "Do YOU not see all these things? Truly I say to YOU, not one stone here shall be left upon another" Verse 2.

 "See to it that no one misleads YOU" Verse 4.

 "YOU will be hearing of wars and rumors of wars" Verse 6. Not someone today will hear of wars.

 "See that YOU are not frightened" Verse 6.

 "They will deliver YOU to tribulation and will kill YOU, and YOU will be hated by all nations" Verse 9.

 "When YOU see the abomination of desolation which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place" Verse 15. "When YOU see Jerusalem compassed with armies" Luke 21:20. Not when someone today sees this. JERUSALEM COMPASSED WITH ARMIES, WHICH WERE SPOKEN OF BY DANIEL [Daniel 9:27] WAS TO BE IN THEIR TIME AND SEEN BY THEM.

 "Even so YOU too, when YOU see all these things, know YOU that He is nigh, even at the door" Verse 33. Not when someone today sees all these things.

 "Truly I say unto YOU, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place" Verse 34.

 "For this reason YOU be ready too; for the Son of Man is coming at an hour when YOU do not think He will" Verse 44.

 [3] THEN AN ADDRESS TO HIS DISCIPLES ON THE MOUNT OF OLIVES OVERLOOKING JERUSALEM: Matthew 24:1-51. There have been thousands of speculations made on Matthew 24 over the centuries, and it is perhaps been abused more than any other passage.

 THE CONTEXT OF MATTHEW 24: It is in the midst of passages about Israel.

 The Two Sons [Matthew 21:27-32] Israel believed not Christ

 The Wicked Husbandman [Matthew 21:33-46]. (a) "He will miserably destroy those miserable men" (b) The stone, Christ, rejected by Israel and Israel scatted as dust

 The Marriage Feast [Matthew 22:1-14] "They that were bidden (Israel) was not worthy"

 The Seven Woes [Matthew 23:1-36] "All these things shall come upon this generation"

 Their House (the Temple) left desolate [Matthew 23:27-39]

 Not One Stone Upon Another [Matthew 24:1-2] The Temple to be destroyed

 There question about what He had just said [Matthew 24:3]

 His answer [Matthew 24:4-31]

 The Fig Tree [Matthew 24;32-36] "This generation shall not pass away, till all these things be accomplished"

 Israel The Unfaithful Servant [Matthew 24:45-25:30]

 MATTHEW 24

 Matthew 24:1-2 "And Jesus went out from the temple, and his disciples came to him TO SHOW HIM THE BUILDINGS OF THE TEMPLE, but he answered and said unto them, see you not all these things? Verily I say unto you, THERE SHALL NOT BE LEFT HERE ONE STONE UPON ANOTHER, THAT SHALL NOT BE THROWN DOWN." The stones were the "buildings of the temple." THESE WORDS ARE THE REASON FOR THE QUESTIONS BY HIS DISCIPLES AND THE REASON FOR THE DISCOURSE THAT FOLLOWED. The purpose of this discourse was not to give His disciples signs of His coming at the end of the world but signs of the destruction of Jerusalem, to warn believers in that generation of the coming destruction of Jerusalem and to give them a sign for them to flee from the destruction coming in their lifetime. "But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then recognize that her desolation is nigh" [Luke 21:20; Matthew 24:15].

 Matthew 24:3 "And as he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us":

 Matthew 24:3

 Question one: "Tell us, when shall THESE THINGS be?"

 Question two: "And what shall be the sign of your coming, and of the end of the age?"

 Except for the bad translation of the King James Version ("end of the world") no one would see the end of the world in these two questions. The Greek says, "end of the age" (aion); not "end of the world" (kosmos). Not even the New King James Version would go along with the King James Version on this bad translation.

 Mark 13:4

 Question one: "Tell us, when shall THESE THINGS be?"

 Question two: "And what shall be the sign when THESE THINGS are all about to be accomplished?"

 Luke 21:6-7

 Question one: "When therefore shall THESE THINGS be?"

 Question two: "And what shall be the sign when THESE THINGS are about to come to pass?"

 Question two as given in the three parallel accounts. All are the same question.

 Matthew "And what shall be the sign of your coming, and of the end of the age?"

 Mark "And what shall be the sign when THESE THINGS are all about to be accomplished?"

 Luke "And what shall be the sign when THESE THINGS are about to come to pass?"

 "THESE THINGS" were the things Christ had just said, "And Jesus said unto him, Do you see these great buildings? There shall not be left here one stone upon another, which shall not be thrown down. And as he seat on the mount of Olives over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately, Tell us, when shall THESE THINGS be?" [Mark 13:2-3].

 The disciples, thinking of what the Lord had said, asked two questions, which they supposed both would be at the same time. When shall THESE THINGS You speak of be and what shall be the sign that THESE THINGS are about to come to pass? NEITHER IN WHAT CHRIST SAID OR IN THE QUESTIONS THE DISCIPLES ASKED IS THERE ANY REFERENCE TO THE SECOND COMING OR TO A GREAT TRIBULATION THOUSANDS OF YEARS AFTER "THESE THING." AT THE TIME THEY ASKED THESE QUESTIONS THEY DID NOT BELIEVE OR KNOW THAT JESUS WOULD BE PUT TO DEATH OR THAT HE WOULD BE GOING BACK TO HEAVEN AND COMING A SECOND TIME. THE DISCIPLES STILL THOUGHT THE CHRIST WOULD RESTORE THE EARTHY KINGDOM OF ISRAEL JUST AS ALL THE JEWS DID.

 "And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hidden from them, and they did not comprehend the things that were said" [Luke 18:34; also Luke 19:11; 24:21-27; John 16:16-18; 20:9].

 When that asked these two questions they did not know or believe Christ would die and be resurrected from the dead or know or believe anything about the second coming of Christ or the judgment day.

 On the day of His resurrection they did not know it was the resurrected Christ they were talking to and said to Him, "But we hoped (past tense) that it was he who should REDEEM ISRAEL" [Luke 24:21].

 Forty days after He was raised from the dead they still did not understand therefore, they still did not expect Christ to go away and return to earth a second time at the end of the world; they expected Him to restore the kingdom to Israel "They; therefore, when they were come together, asked him, saying, Lord, do you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?" [Acts 1:6].

 AT THE TIME THEY ASKED THIS, THEY DID NOT BELIEVE JUST AS THE JEWS DID NOT BELIEVE THAT THEIR MESSIAH WOULD BE KILLED, BUT THAT HE WOULD SET UP AN EARTHLY KINGDOM OF ISRAEL. HOW COULD THEY BE ASKING ABOUT HIS SECOND COMING WHEY THEY DID NOT KNOW THERE WOULD BE A SECOND COMING? MILLENNIALISTS MUST MAKE THE DISCIPLES BE ASKING A QUESTION ABOUT THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST THAT THE DISCIPLES DID NOT UNDERSTAND ABOUT OR BELIEVE AT THAT TIME, BUT THEY MUST HAVE THE DISCIPLES ASKING QUESTIONS ABOUT THE MILLENNIAL AND THE RAPTURE TO MAKE THIS CHAPTER TEACH THEIR VIEW. I have never seen where any Premillennialists say how these disciples that did not know that Christ was to die and be raised from the dead and forty days later ascend to Heaven explain how the same disciples could know anything about the rapture and the thousand years. From where do they think these disciples had this knowledge? Lindsay says, "The 'coming' referred to in the question above is commonly referred to as the second advent of Christ. It was only natural that they wanted to know what signs would indicate his return to set up God's promised kingdom." "The Late Great Planet Earth" page 52, Zoudervan Publishing House, 1970.

 A) SIGNS OF THE THINGS THAT WERE TO COME TO PAST THAT CHRISTIANS WERE TO WATCH FOR.

 Matthew 24:4-15: "And Jesus answered (His answer was to the questions they had asked about the destruction of the temple, not about His second coming) and said unto them, Take heed that no man lead you astray. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am the Christ; and shall lead many astray. And you shall hear of wars and rumors of wars; see that you are not troubled: for these things must needs come to pass; but the end is not yet. For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there shall be famines and earthquakes in divers places. But, all these things are the beginning of travail. Then shall they deliver you up unto tribulation, and shall kill you: and you shall be hated of all the nations for my name's sake. And then shall many stumble, and shall deliver up one another, and shall hate one another. And many false prophets shall arise, and shall lead many astray. And because iniquity shall be multiplied, the love of many shall wax cold. But, he that endures to the end, the same shall be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world for a testimony unto all the nations; and then shall the end come. When; therefore, you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let him that reads understand)."

 B) NATURAL DISASTERS TO ISRAEL AND ROME.

 "When Christ was born, there was a universal peace in the empire...From the time that the Jews rejected Christ, and he left their house desolate, the sword did never depart from their house, the sword of the Lord was never quiet, because he had given it a charge against a hypocritical nation and the people of his wrath, and by it brought ruin upon them." Matthew Henry, Matthew 24:6. Zondervan Publishing House, 1721.

 (a) WARS AND RUMORS OF WARS [Matthew 24:6] with nations and kingdoms rising against each other [Matthew 24:7]. There were many conflicts and battles before A. D. 70 in which thousands of Jews were killed. In one battle with the Syrians about 5,000 Jews were killed. From A. D. 66 to 70 there were many wars and rumors of wars. Many thousands were killed in the many wars in the 5 years before the destruction of the temple and Israel in A. D. 70. "The Jewish war began in A. D. 66, and ended five years after. During this period all the Roman Empire was filled with commotion. Nero, the emperor, was overthrown by Galba; six months after, Galba was overthrown by Otho; a few months after, Otho was overthrown by Vitelius; a little later, he was overthrown by Vespasian. All of these but the last, who ascended the throne shortly before Jerusalem was destroyed, died violent deaths...Tacitus, the Roman historian, says of this period: 'It was full of calamities, horrible with battles, rent with seditions, savage in peace itself.'" B. W. Johnson, "The People's New Testament With Notes" Gospel Light Publishing Company, 1889. From the writing of Jesephus we learn that the Jews were divided into parties fighting among themselves and Jews killed others Jews in numbers far greater then those killed by the Roman soldiers and villages of Syria and elsewhere were burnt to the ground in the five years of war before the Romans laid siege to Jerusalem. During the siege many more Jews were killed by warring bands of Jews in Jerusalem, and Josephus says the Jews suffered far more from one another inside the walls of the city than from the Romans outside. Thousand more were killed by bands of robbers.

 "When Christ was born, there was a universal peace in the empire...From the time that the Jews rejected Christ, and he left their house desolate, the sword did never depart from their house, the sword of the Lord was never quiet, because he had given it a charge against a hypocritical nation and the people of his wrath, and by it brought ruin upon them." Matthew Henry, Matthew 24:6. Zondervan Publishing House, 1721.

 (b) FAMINES IN DIVERS PLACES [Matthew 24:7]. In the years between the death of Christ and the destruction of Jerusalem there were severe famines especially in the area of Jerusalem. Paul took up a contribution for the poor among the saints at Jerusalem [Romans 15:25; 1 Corinthians 16:1-4] which many churches took part in. Agabus signified by the Spirit that there would be a great famine over all the world, which came to pass in the days of Claudius, and the disciples sent relief unto the disciples in Judea [Acts 11:28-29].

 (c) PESTILENCES [Matthew 24:7 King James Version]. Pestilences tend to come with famine. There was a great one in AD 40 in Babylon when many Jews died and many more fled because of it. Another one in AD 65 in Rome when many died. I have seen no history that tells how many died by wars, famines, pestilences and earthquakes in the years before the destruction of Jerusalem, but no doubt it was many thousands. During the siege of Jerusalem but before the fall, the dead from famines and pestilences filled all the room for burial within the walls of the city and Josephus claims 600,000 more bodies were thrown out of the gates of Jerusalem and left unburialed.

 (d) EARTHQUAKES IN DIVERS PLACES [Matthew 24:7]. The earthquakes are spoken of as a dreadful judgment against the nation of Israel, "But all these things are the beginning of travail" [Matthew 24:8]. "Of these significant emblems of political commotions, there occurred several within the scene of this prophecy, and, as our Savior predicted, in divers places in the reign of Claudius there was one at Rome, and another at Apamea in Syria, where many Jews resided. The earthquake at the latter place was so destructive, that the emperor, in order to relieve the distresses of the inhabitants, remitted its tribute for five years. Both these earthquakes are recorded by Tacitus. There was one also, in the same reign in Crete that is mentioned by Philostratus, in his Life of Apollonius, who says, that 'there were others at Smyrna, Miletus, Chios, and Samos; IN ALL WHICH PLACES JEWS HAD SETTLED.' In the reign of Nero there was an earthquake at Laodicea. Tacitus records this also. It is likewise mentioned by Eusebius and Orosius, who add that Hieropolis and Colose, as well as Laodicea, were overthrown by an earthquake. There was also one in Campania in this reign (of this both Tacitus and Seneca speak) and another at Rome in the reign of Galba, recorded by Suetonius." George P. Holford, "The Destruction Of Jerusalem," 1805. Some cities of Israel were totaled destroyed by earthquakes before the destruction of Jerusalem. I have not found an estimate of how many Jews died by earthquakes but like both the famines and the pestilences, without doubt many more thousands died in the earthquakes before A. D. 70.

 Dr. Philip Schaff says there is scarcely another period in history so full of corruption, vice, and disaster as the six years between Neronian persecution in A. D. 64 and the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70, History Of the Christian Church, New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge.

 FOR MANY YEARS EARTHQUAKES, FAMINES, WARS, PESTILENCES HAVE REPEATEDLY BEEN MAKE INTO A SURE SIGN THAT THE END IS AT HAND BY MANY WRITERS OF FICTION.

 C) PERSECUTION FIRST FROM JEWS AND THEN ROME. THE SPREAD OF THE GOSPEL.

 (a). "BUT ALL THESE THINGS ARE THE BEGINNING OF TRAVAIL" [Matthew 24:9].

 (b). CHRISTIANS WOULD BE DELIVER UP, KILLED AND HATED BY ALL THE NATIONS [Matthew 24:9]. The persecution of believers came first from the Jews. Acts 4:3; 4:18; 4:21; 5:18; 5:28; 6:12-14; 7:58-60; 8:1; 8:3; 9:1-2; 13:44-51; 14:2; 14:19; 17:5-8; 17:13; 26:9-10; Paul was one of the persecutors and then one of the persecuted. "Five times I received from the Jews thirty-nine lashes. Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned...I have been in...dangers from my countrymen" [2 Corinthians 11:24-26]. "For you also suffer the same things of your own countrymen, even as they did of the Jews; who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophet, and drove out us" [1 Thessalonians 2:14-15]. It was soon followed by the persecution of Nero of believers, which began about A. D. 64. After the fire in Rome Nero attempted to clear himself by blaming it on the Christians. He then persecuted the Christians with such cruelty that even many of his fellow Romans were taken back by his cruelty "But before all these things, they shall lay their hands on you, and shall persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prison, bringing you before kings and governors for my name's sake" [Luke 21:12]. See Hebrews 10:32-34. Both the persecution from the Jews and the persecution from Rome were severe. I have just touched the hem of the garment.

 (c). MANY SHALL STUMBLE, DELIVER UP ONE ANOTHER, AND HATE ONE ANOTHER [Matthew 24:10]. As a result of the persecutions the weak stumbled. "And brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child; and children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all on account of My name...and a man's enemies will be the members of his household" [Matthew 10:22-36].

 (d). MANY FALSE PROPHETS [Matthew 24:11]. See 2 Peter 2:1; 1 John 4:1; 2:18; Galatians 1:7. Many false teachers saying they were the Christ [Matthew 24:5]. Josephus says that they did come about the time of the end of Jerusalem.

 (e). LIGHTNING "For just as the lightning comes from the east, and flashes even to the west, so shall the coming of the Son of Man be" [Matthew 24:27]. For the use of "lightning" in the Old Testament for God's angry and judgment see Exodus 19:16; 2 Samuel 22:7-15; Isaiah 30:27. It is also used symbolically in Revelation of judgments. Revelation 4:5; 11:19; 16:18. The false prophets saying they were the Christ were only seen by some. The coming of Christ in judgment on Israel with the total destruction of Israel as a country was seen in all the known world just as lightning in the east is seen in the west.

 (f). MANY DISCIPLES WILL FALL AWAY, BUT THOSE WHO REMAIN FAITHFUL SHALL BE SAVED [Matthew 24:13-14].

 (g). THE GOSPEL SHALL BE PREACHED TO THE WHOLE WORLD [Matthew 24:14]. The persecution against the church in Jerusalem scattered the saints abroad, and they went about preaching the word everywhere. [Acts 8:1-4]. The gospel was preached throughout the world, as it was known before A. D. 70. "The hope of the gospel which you heard, which was preached in all creation under heaven" [Colossians 1:23]. Paul says to the Romans, "Your faith is proclaimed throughout the whole world" [Romans 1:8]. In Romans 10:18 he says, "Their voice has gone out into all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world." "World" as it is used in the New Testament is all the civilized world of that day, all the known world. See Luke 2:1; Acts 11:28.

 "Now there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven" [Acts 2:5]. The devout Jews came from all over the world to Jerusalem for Pentecost and when Pentecost was over, they returned to all nations under heaven and some that believed the preaching of Peter and others took the Gospel with them.

 "The mystery...has been made known to all the nations" [Romans 16:25-26].

 D) THEN COMES THE END OF THE NATION OF ISRAEL.

 (a). THEN COMES THE END WHEN THEY SEE THE ROMANS IN JERUSALEM. "When; therefore, you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet [Daniel 9:27], standing in the holy place" [Matthew 24:14-15]. The parallel passage in Luke 21:20 says, "But when you see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that her desolation is at hand." There will be no armies in Jerusalem to see at the second coming of Jesus. In the Old Testament the worship of other gods is an "abomination" [Deuteronomy 7:25; 12:31; 17:3]. The Romans worshiped many gods. The idolatrous army of Rome in Jerusalem was an "abomination of desolation" to them. Daniel speaks of this "abomination of desolation" at the time when the regular sacrifice is abolished [Daniel 12:11; 9:27].

 (b). "THEN LET THEM THAT ARE IN JUDAEA FLEE UNTO THE MOUNTAINS" [Matthew 24:16]. The last signs the disciples were to look for was the Roman army in Jerusalem. After going through the country around about Jerusalem and destroying the cities and killing many thousand of the Jews, Cestius Gallus came to within one mile of Jerusalem, then after about four days entered the city but fled with many Jews pursuing him. THE DISCIPLES WERE TO FLEE UNTO THE MOUNTAINS WHEN THEY SAW ALL THE ABOVE SIGNS. If this passage were speaking of the second coming of Christ, as many Premillennialists say it is, why were Christians told to flee to the mountains? In Luke Christ is speaking of the coming destruction of Jerusalem and tells the disciples, "But watch at every season, making supplication, that you may prevail TO ESCAPE all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man" [Luke 21:36]. They did watch and escape by fleeing to the mountains beyond the cities of Israel.

 "After this disaster had befallen Cestius, the more opulent of the Jews (says Josephus) forsook Jerusalem as men do a sinking ship. And it is with reason supposed that on this occasion many Christians, or converted Jews, who dwelt there, recollecting the warnings of their divine Master, retired to Pella, a place beyond Jordan, situated in a mountainous country, whither (according to Eusebius, who resided near the spot) they came from Jerusalem, and settled, before the war (under Vespasian) began. Other providential opportunities for escaping afterwards occurred, of which, it is probable, those who were now left behind availed themselves; for it is a striking act, and such as cannot be contemplated by the pious mind without sentiments of devout admiration, THAT HISTORY DOES NOT RECORD THAT EVEN ONE CHRISTIAN PERISHED IN THE SIEGE OF JERUSALEM. Enduring to the end faithful to their blessed master, they, gave credit to his predictions, and escaped the calamity. Thus were fulfilled the words of our Lord, Matt. 24. 13. 'He that shall endure unto the end (i. e. of the scene of this prophecy) shall be saved,' i. e. from the calamities which will involve all those who shall continue obstinate in unbelief" George P. Holford, "The Destruction of Jerusalem."

 "It is very remarkable that not a single Christian perished in the destruction of Jerusalem, though there were many there when Cestis Gallus invested the city; and, had he persevered in the siege, he would soon have rendered himself master of it; but, when he unexpectedly and unaccountably raised the siege, the Christians took that opportunity to escape." Adam Clarke, Commentary on Matthew.

 At the second coming of Jesus no one will see the Roman army and flee to the mountains. Premillennialists believe and teach that the rapture will be at the time of this great tribulation, therefore, the saints could not flee to the mountains for they would be "up in the sky with Christ" in the rapture; but Jesus clearly told them to flee to the mountains when the tribulation begins. Christians were to (and did) flee from Jerusalem; from the very place where Premillennialists say Christ will come to and set up His kingdom, and if this passage were about a millennial coming, they were told to flee from Jerusalem at the very time when many Millennialists say He will be coming to Jerusalem to set up His kingdom. If this chapter were about Christ coming to set up His kingdom in Jerusalem, as many Premillennialists teach it is and Christ just happens to leave some Christians behind in Jerusalem at the rapture, why would those left behind be told to flee from the very place Premillennialists teach Christ is to come to set up His kingdom at the time when He is to come?

 That this is not the second coming of Christ is shown by the fact that both living and dead believers did not meet the Lord in the air, but that only the living believers were to flee to the mountains.

 E) INSTRUCTIONS AND WARNING TO THE DISCIPLES Matthew 24:17-20. "Let him that is on the housetop not go down to take out the things that are in his house: (18) and let him that is in the field not return back to take his cloak. (19) But woe unto them that give suck in those days! (20) And pray you that your flight be not in the winter, neither on a Sabbath; for then shall be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world (aion-age) until now, no, not ever shall be. (22) And except those days had been shortened, no flesh would have been saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened. (23) Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is the Christ, or, Here; believe it not. (24) For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders; so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. (25) Behold, I have told you beforehand. (26) If; therefore, they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the wilderness; go not forth: Behold, he is in the inner chambers; believe it not. (27) For as the lightning comes forth from the east, and is seen even unto the west; so shall be the coming of the Son of man. (28) Wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together."

 "For then shall be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world (aion-age) until now, no, not ever shall be." Some believe this is speaking of the Jewish age, not all time. Not of the destruction of the flood before the Jewish age and not speaking of any war after the end of the Jewish age. Daniel 12:1 says, "And there will be a time of distress such as never occurred since there was a nation until that time." They believe Daniel vision was about Israel and Michael was speaking only of Israel and should be understood as "since there was a nation of Israel." It is believed to be speaking only of the wars and captivities of Israel. I am not persuaded this is the right view, but it may be something that needs be looked into.

 (a). They were to flee without taking time to take things from their house, and those in field were not to take the time to return to their house for things [Matthew 24:18-19]. "But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then recognize that her desolation is at hand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are in the midst of the city depart, and let not those who are in the country enter the city" [Luke 20:20-21].

 No one, saved or lost, will be able to flee to the mountains to escape at the second coming of Jesus. The saved will not want to and the lost will not be able to. Neither will Jerusalem be surrounded by armies at the second coming of Christ. Nevertheless, Millennialists attempt to make this be an army of Satan surrounding Christ and His saints in the Millennial Kingdom. Would those who were with Christ in Jerusalem be told to flee to the mountains to escape the army of Satan? If they were, it would give Satan more power than Christ has for He would not be able to protect them from Satan.

 The saints that were to flee to the mountains would be in the mountains at the time of rapture, not ruptured to Heaven where the Millennialists say they will be. Although this is a key passage to the Millennia theory it is an undeniable contradiction to the rapture theory.

 (b). Woe unto them that have a small child [Matthew 24:29]. Those with a child would have hardships in fleeing to the mountains, but at the end of the world this will be no problem, no woe to those who will be caught up to meet Jesus in the air.

 (c). They were to pray that it not be in the winter or on a Sabbath for the gates of Jerusalem were closed, and no one could depart from the city [Matthew 24:20]. Because the streams were then impassable from the heavy rains, the cold wet weather would be hard on those who were fleeing. The gates of Jerusalem have never been closed after A. D. 70 and it will be no problem if the gates of Jerusalem, or any city was closed at the second coming nor will impassable streams or cold weather be a problem at the second coming.

 Hindrances to flight from Jerusalem in A. D. 70 that would be no hindrances at second coming.

 Having a small child [Matthew 24:19]

 In the winter [Matthew 24:20]

 On a Sabbath day [Matthew 24:20]

 (d). There would be a greater tribulation than had ever been [Matthew 24:20-22].

 (e). There would be many false Christs and prophets that would show great signs [Matthew 24:23-27]. But, when Christ came in judgment on Israel, He through His judgment was seen by all. False Christs and prophets will not be a sign of His second coming at the end of the world.

 (f). Wheresoever the dead body of Israel was (the carcass) the eagles would gather [Matthew 24:28]. The Jewish nation was a dead and rotting carcass with its birds of prey.

 First: many false Chrsits.

 Second: Christ coming seen by all.

 Third: Then the dead carcass of Israel. That Christ being seen by all is the coming of Christ in judgment on Israel and not His second coming is shown by it being between the false Christs and the dead carcass of Jerusalem.

 "For these are days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled" [Luke 21:22]. Jeremiah ends his prophecy made in Gehenna [valley of Topheth] outside of Jerusalem with, "Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, 'Behold, I am about to bring on this city and all its towns the entire calamity that I have declared against it because they have stiffened their necks so as not to heed My words'" [Jeremiah 19:15].

 FIRST CENTURY OR TODAY?

 (a). "Let him that is on the housetop not go down." Most first century houses in Jerusalem had flat roofs, and a person could travel from one housetop to the next. Today there are almost none with flat roofs and what few there may be would not be useful as a roadway to the gate of the city.

 (b). Not on the Sabbath. The gates would be closed, and no one would be able to leave the city. Today there are no gates. The Law forbids going more than a Sabbath day journey, which is less than a mile, and others Jews might have stopped them for breaking the Law.

 (c). Not in the winter. Travel would be hard then but not today with today's ways of travel.

 (d). "For the days shall come upon you when your enemies shall cast up a bank about you, and compass you round, and keep you on in on every side" [Luke 19:43-44]. Then the common way that was used by the Romans to take a walled city was to build an embankment next to the wall for the army to walk up to the top of the wall. Today's cities, not even Jerusalem, do not have walls as they would be useless with modern planes and explosives.

 (f). "And except those days had been shortened, no flesh would have been saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened." After Jerusalem was completely destroyed, the cities of Israel that had not been destroyed before Jerusalem was also destroyed. If the Roman army had kept going, the fateful Jews beyond the mountains where Christians had fled to would have also been destroyed. This would make no sense when it is applied to the second coming of Christ as it is by many millennialists.

 Luke 21:24 "And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led captive into all the nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." In A. D. 70 all the Jews that were in Israel that was not killed were led captive into all the nations. The siege of Jerusalem was at the time of the Passover when millions were within the walls of the city.

 "Of the Jews destroyed during the siege, Josephus reckons not less than ONE MILLION AND ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND, to which must be added, above TWO-HUNDRED AND THIRTY-SEVEN THOUSAND who perished in other places, AND INNUMERABLE MULTITUDES WHO WERE SWEPT AWAY BY FAMINE, AND PESTILENCE, AND OF WHICH NO CALCULATION COULD BE MADE. Not less than two thousand laid violent hands upon themselves. Of the captives the whole was about NINETY-SEVEN THOUSAND." George P. Holford, "The Destruction of Jerusalem." He also says that at this time bands of robbers and murderers plundered the other towns and slew the resistance of many of the towns.

 "No history can furnish us with a parallel to the calamities and miseries of the Jews:-rape, murder, famine, and pestilence within: fire and sword, and all the horrors of war, without. Our Lord wept at the foresight of these calamities; and it is almost impossible for any humane person to read the relation of them in Josephus without weeping also." Adam Clarke, Commentary on Matthew.

 "The destruction of Jerusalem was more terrible than anything that the world has ever witnessed, either before or since. Even Titus seemed to see in his cruel work the hand of an avenging God." C.H. Spurgeon, Commentary on Matthew, Page 412.

 "And indeed the multitude of carcasses that lay in heaps one upon another was a horrible sight, and produced a pestilential stench, which was a hindrance to those that would make sallies out of the city, and fight the enemy: but as those were to go in battle-array, who had been already use to ten thousand murders, and must tread upon those dead bodies as they marched along, so they were not terrified, nor did they pity men as they marched over them." Josephus, The Wars Of The Jews Or The History Of The Destruction Of Jerusalem, Book VI, Page 1. This is only a small sample of the pages in Josephus's history of the destruction of the Jews as a nation, of the wars of the Jews with the Romans before, during, and after the destruction of Jerusalem, of the famines, pestilence and earthquakes through out all Israel unto the entire nation were destroyed. It is not for those with a weak stomach.

 "The Roman leaders endeavored to strike terror to the Jews and thus, cause them to surrender. Those prisoners, who resisted when taken, were scourged, tortured, and crucified before the wall of the city. Hundreds were daily put to death in this manner, and the dreadful work continued until, along the Valley Jehoshaphat and at Calvary, crosses were erected in so great numbers that there was scarcely room to move among them. So terrible was the visited that awful imprecation uttered before the judgment seat of Pilate: 'His blood be on us, and on our children Matthew 27:25'" The Great Controversy. The nation of Israel sowed a cross and reaped thousands of crosses.

 "Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another" [Matthew 24:2]. Titus wanted to save the temple and give command that it be not destroyed, but Christ had said it would be. It was set on fire against the command of Titus, and the gold melted and ran down into the foundation stones, and the soldiers dug up the foundation stones looking for the gold. Not one stone was left. In Luke's account of this [Luke 19:41-44] he says the temple would be even with the ground. After the destruction of Jerusalem one could not know by looking at the spot that the temple had been on it. A Moslem Mosque, called the Dome of the Rock, is now on the spot where the temple was.

 "Daniel also wrote concerning the Roman government, and that our country should be made desolate by them." Josephus, "Antiquities of the Jews" 10.11.7.

 IN THEIR BOOKS OF FICTION THE MILLENNIUM TRIBULATION IS OFTEN BASED ON MATTHEW 24 WHICH DID COME IN A. D. 70 BEFORE THAT GENERATION PASSED AWAY [MATTHEW 24:34]. "For then shall be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world (aion-age)." The purpose of this discourse was not to give his disciples signs of His coming at the end of the world but signs of the destruction of Jerusalem, to warn believers in that generation of the coming destruction of Jerusalem and to give them a sign for them to flee from the destruction coming in their lifetime. [Matthew 24:21]. Millennialists say, "Not so Christ, the great tribulation in the Millennium will be much greater then the tribulation at the destruction of Jerusalem and Israel."

 THE CARCASS OF ISRAEL

 "Wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together" Matthew 24:28.

 "I wonder and can any understand these words of pious men flying to Christ, [in the rapture] when the discourse here is of quite a different thing: they are thus connected to the forgoing: Christ shall be revealed with a sudden vengeance; for when God shall cast of the city and people, grown ripe for destruction, like a carcass thrown out, the Roman soldiers, like eagles, shall straight fly to it with their eagles (ensigns) to tear and devout it." John Lightfoot, Matthew 24:28 "A Commentary on Matthew."

 NOT JERUSALEM ONLY BUT ALL THE NATION OF ISRAEL WAS DESTROYED, AND ALL THE LAND THAT WAS THE NATION OF ISRAEL WAS TAKEN OVER BY OTHER PEOPLE. THE NATION OF ISRAEL CAME TO AN END. The Jewish religion was centered round and totally dependence on the sacrifices which could only be performed at the Temple and only by the Levitical priesthood. Both came to an end and have not been restored to this day.

 IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM AND ALL ISRAEL

 Matthew 24:29-31: "But immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken: (30) and then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. (31) And he shall send forth his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other."

 Matthew 24:1-28 is speaking of the destruction of Jerusalem. Then in the next verse Christ says, "But immediately after the tribulation of those days" and gives a list in verses 29-31 of things that are to happen then, immediately after the destruction, not at His second coming. Then in verses 32-44 He gives us the parable of Israel the fig tree in which His coming was "nigh, even at the doors." These verses are highly symbolic of something that took place immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem. In symbolic language the sun is a great ruler on this earth, and the stars are lesser rulers. There were no rulers or teachers in Israel immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem and all the cities of Israel. All was darkness for Israel. "And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn" (see Matthew 10:23 where the coming of Christ is in judgment on Israel). In the next parable, Christ is "nigh, even at the doors" and "this generation shall not pass away till all these things be accomplished." Though not literally, Christ did come in judgment in the destruction of Jerusalem. If this were at the judgment when all will be raised from the dead for judgment by Christ, I find it difficult to see how any could think that He will not give forth His light at the Judgment, and what then are the stars that shall fall from Heaven? If verses 30 and 31 were speaking of the second coming, they would be out of place for the second coming was not "immediately after the tribulation of those days" (verse 29) and not in the "generation that shall not pass away till all these things be accomplished" (verse 34). Many teach that the things in Matthew 24 are events that are happening today, but if so, there would some very old people be living today.

 The "great tribulation" of Matthew 24:21 is now past history, not something still to come. "But IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE TRIBULATION OF THESE DAYS the sun shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken" [Matthew 24:29]. Jesus used the same symbolic language to describe the fall of Israel that Isaiah used to describe the fall of Babylon [Ezekiel 32:7-9] and is commonly used in the Old Testament. "For the stars of heaven and their constellations will not flash forth their light; the sun will be dark when it rises, and the moon will not shed its light" [Isaiah 13:10]. Luke adds, "And upon the earth distress of nations" [Luke 21:21]. There is no way to get around the sun being darkened was immediately after the tribulation Christ was speaking of, which was in A. D. 70; not a tribulation yet to come after the second coming of Christ. MOST MILLENNIALISTS MAKE THE SUN BEING DARKENED BE THE GREAT TRIBULATION; THEY MOVE THE TIME OF THE DARKEN FROM IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE TRIBULATION AND MAKE THE DARKNESS IT SELF BE THE TRIBULATION.

 The same figurative language of the sun, moon and stars being darken or falling from heaven is also used of the fall of Judea [a national judgment] in Jeremiah 4:1-28.

 Of the fall of Israel [Amos 8:6-9; 8:18-20].

 Of the fall of Israel [Zephaniah 1:14-18].

 Of the fall of the Nations [Joel 3:15-16; 2:31].

 Of the fall of Egypt [Ezekiel 30:3-4; 32:7-8; Isaiah 19:1].

 Of the fall of Babylon [Isaiah 13:10-20].

 Of the fall of Edom [Isaiah 34:4-6].

 Of the city of Arier in Israel [Isaiah 29:5-6].

 Of the fall of "My people" [Isaiah 51:5-6].

 Also see Joel 2:1-31; 30:31; Haggai 2:6-7; Amos 8:9; Jeremiah 15:9 46:7; 49:23-24; Isaiah 17:12-13; 19:1; 47:20; 64:3; Daniel 7:2-17; Exodus 19:16; 13:21-22; 14:19-31; Psalm 18:13;104:3; Ezekiel 34:4; Nahum 1:3. THIS WAS FAMILIAR LANGUAGE TO THOSE JESUS WAS SPEAKING TO AND THEY WOULD HAVE UNDERSTOOD HIM TO BE SPEAKING OF THE FALL OF A NATION, NOT OF THE END OF THE WORLD. It is similar to that in Deuteronomy 23:22-28 and both are a judgment on Israel.

 Compare Matthew 24:29-30 to the fall of Egypt. "And when I extinguish you, I will cover the heavens, and darken their stars; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give its light. All the shining lights in the heavens I will darken over you and will set darkness on your land, declares the Lord God. I will also trouble the hearts of many peoples, when I bring your destruction among the nations" [Ezekiel 32:7-9]. As far as these nations were concerned the lights went out.

 Matthew 24:30: "Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in Heaven." "In Heaven" is where the Son of Man is, not where the sign would appear. What did appear was the destruction of Israel. The sign proves that the man Israel rejected is the Lord and is the ruler over all nations, and He has the power to destroy the nations that reject Him.

 In speaking of God's coming in judgment on Egypt Isaiah says, "The oracle concerning Egypt. Behold, the Lord is riding on a swift cloud, and is about to come to Egypt" [Isaiah 19:1; also Jeremiah 4:13; Ezekiel 30:3-4]. This is not God literally riding a cloud into Egypt, but is figurative language of His coming in judgment on Egypt. When they saw Jerusalem destroyed, they were seeing Jesus coming in judgment on that city. Jesus told the high priest, "YOU SHALL SEE THE SON OF MAN SITTING AT THE RIGHT HAND OF POWER, AND COMING ON THE CLOUDS OF HEAVEN" [Mark 14:62]. The high priest did not literally see Jesus in Heaven, but he and all Israel did see the coming of Jesus in judgment on Israel.

 "The signs in the heavens, the darkening sun and falling stars, refer to the falling of Jewish dignitaries, casting down of authorities and powers, long established, and signified the darkness that settled upon the Jewish state, the sun of the Hebrew temple was darkened, the moon of the Jewish commonwealth was as blood, the stars of Sanhendrin fell from their high seats of authority...The sign of the Son of man in the heaven was a signal, the evidence of divine visitation and intervention in the downfall of the Jewish authorities and in all the transpiring events. The mourning of all the tribes of the earth refers to the lamentation of the Jewish families all over the world because of the destruction of their city and their temple and their state. The coming of the Son of man in the clouds of heaven is not a reference to the second coming of Christ but to the coming foretold by Jesus to Caiaphas in Matthew 26:64: 'Hereafter shall you see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of Heaven.' Jesus told Caiaphas that he would see it, he would be living witness to these event" Foy E. Wallace Jr., "The Book of Revelation" Page 354.

 "And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn." When their country was destroyed, the Jews that were in other parts of the earth would mourn. The word translated "earth" is "gee" and in the King James Version is translated "land" forty-one times, "ground" eighteen times and "country" two times. "Gee" is translated land in Matthew 2:6; 2:20; 2:21; 4:15; 9:26; 11:24; 14:34; 27:45; Mark 4:1; 6:47; 6:53; 15:33; Luke 4:25; 5:3; 5:11; 5:24; 8:27; 14:35; 21:23; John 3:22; 6:21; 21:8; 21:9; 21:11; Acts 7:3; 7:4; 7:4; 7:6; 7:11; 7:29; 7:33; 7:36; 7:4013:17; 13:19; 13:19; Hebrews 8:9; 11:9; Jude 5. "Gee" is translated "ground" in Matthew 9:29; 13:8; 13:23; 15:35; Mark 4:8; 4:20; 4:26; 8:6; 9:20; 24:35; Luke 8:8; 8:15; 22:44; John 8:6; 8:8; 12:24; Acts 7:33. "Gee" is translated "country" in Matthew 9:31 and Acts 7:3. Had it been translated "land" in Matthew 24:30, "And then shall all the tribes of the land [gee] mourn" most of the confusion would not have existed. See Zechariah 12:11-12.

 "And he will send forth His angels with a great trumpet, and they will gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other" [Matthew 24:31]. Still speaking in figurative language Jesus is saying He will send His messengers into all the world with His Gospel and gather them to Him in His kingdom, the church. Just as there was not literally a "great trumpet" that was heard in Egypt and Assyria [Isaiah 27:13], there was not literally a "great trumpet" after the fall of Jerusalem. "And they will gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other," is figurative language meaning from all over the earth, just as is "from east and west, and from north and south" [Luke 13:29 also see Matthew 24:14]. All the saved "His elect" are now gathered together in His kingdom, the church.

 Those in the first century would understand "blood, fire, vapor and smoke" to be used as it was in the Old Testament [Acts 2:19; Joel 2:28-32], but would never have understood it to be referring to a nuclear war as many millennialists apply it. Christ used the symbolic language of the Old Testament as it was used in the Old Testament, as those hearing Him would have understood, not something in today's newspapers.

 Literally, that day was an ordinary day. The moon was not literally turned into blood, but spiritually it was an earth shaking day. Even the Millennialists who say all scripture must be interpreted literally do not believe the moon will ever literally be turned to blood.

 THE SON OF MAN SEEN COMING IN HIS KINGDOM "Truly I say to you, there are some of those who are standing here who shall not taste death until they SEE THE SON OF MAN COMING in His kingdom" [Matthew 16:28]. The parallel passage in Mark says, "Truly I say to you, there are some of those who are standing here who shall not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power" [Mark 9:1]. His kingdom came in Acts 2; therefore, Christ was seen coming in His kingdom in power and glory in A. D. 30. Christ came both in the coming of His kingdom and in judgment on Israel, but neither one was a visible coming as the second coming will be that all, both the living and the dead will see. The problem many have when they read Matthew 24 is that they see only His second coming and therefore must interpret much of Matthew 24 to be speaking of the end of time. Neither His coming in His kingdom in A. D. 30, nor His coming in judgment on Israel in A. D. 70 was the second coming when the saved will put on immortality and forever be with Him.

 COMING OF CHRIST BEFORE HIS DISCIPLES HAD GONE THROUGH THE CITIES OF ISRAEL. Matthew 10:16-23. "Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be you; therefore, wise as serpents, and harmless as doves. But, beware of men: for they will deliver you up to councils, and in theirs synagogues they will scourge you; and before governors and kings shall you be brought for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. But, when they deliver you up, be not anxious how or what you shall speak: for it shall be given you in that hour what you shall speak. For it is not you that speak, but the Spirit of your Father that speaks in you. And brother shall deliver up brother to death, and the father his child: and children shall rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death. And you shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endures to the end, the same shall be saved. But, when they persecute you in this city, flee into the next: for verily I say unto you, You shall not have gone through the cities of Israel, till the Son of man be come."

 "After the destruction of Jerusalem seventeen hundred Jews who surrendered at Macherus were slain, and of fugitives not less than three thousand in the woods of Jardes. Titus having marched his army to Caesarea, he (Titus) there, with great splendor, celebrated the birthday of his brother Domitian; and according to the barbarous manner of those times, punished many Jews in honor of it. The number who was burnt, and who fell by fighting with wild beasts, and in mutual combats, exceeded two thousand five hundred." G. Holford, The Destruction of Jerusalem.

 Adam Clarke lists some that were killed at other places. "By the inhabitants of Caesarea, above 20,000. At Scythopolis, above 13,000. At Ascalon, 2,500. At Ptolemais, 2,000. At Alexandria, 50,000. At Joppa, when taken by Cestius Gallus, 8,400. In a mountain called Asamon, near Sepporis, above 2,000. At Damascus, 10,000. In a battle with the Romans at Ascalon, 10,000. In an ambuscade near the same place, 8,000. At Japha, 15,000. Of the Samaritans, on Mount Gerizim, 11,600. At Jotapa, 40,000. At Joppa, when taken by Vespasian, 4,200. At Tarichea, 6,500. And after the city was taken, 1,200. At Gamala, 4,000, besides 5,000 who threw themselves down a precipice. Of those who fled with John, of Gischala, 6,000. Of the Gadarenes, 15,000 slain, besides countless multitudes drowned. In the village of Idumea, above 10,000 slain. At Gerasa, 1,000. At Machaerus, 1,700. In the wood of Jardes, 3,000. In the castle of Masada, 960. In Cyrene, by Catullus the governor, 3,000. Besides these, many of every age, sex, and condition, were slain in the war, who are not reckoned; but, of those who are reckoned, the number amounts to upwards of 1,357,660, which would have appeared incredible, if their own historian had not so particularly enumerated them." Clarke's Commentary on Matthew. The unknown number that was destroyed throughout the country by pestilence, famine, earthquakes and robbers throughout the reign both before the destruction of Jerusalem, during the destruction, and the years after it must be added to this. Also, Adam Clarke says most of those taken captive "above seventeen years old were distributed through the Roman provinces, to be destroyed in their theaters by the sword, and by the wild beasts."

 AFTER TITUS CAME ADRIAN

 "'In the reign of Adrian,' say Bishop Newton, 'nine hundred and eighty-five of their best towns were sacked and demolished, five hundred and eighty thousand men fell by the sword, in battle, besides, an infinite multitude who perished by, famine, and sickness, and fire; so that Judea was depopulated, and an almost incredible number of every age and of each sex, were sold like horses and dispersed over the face of the earth' - (Newton, vol. I, Page xviii.) The war which gave rise to these calamities happened about forty-four years after the destruction of Jerusalem" G. Holford, The Destruction of Jerusalem.

 "Therefore, behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that it shall no more be called Topheth, not the Valley of the son of Hinnom, but the valley of slaughter: for they shall bury in Topheth, till there be no place to bury. And the dead bodies of this people shall be food for the birds of the heavens, and for the beasts of the earth; and none shall frighten them away. THEN WILL I CAUSE TO CEASE FROM THE CITIES OF JUDAH, AND FROM THE STREETS OF JERUSALEM, THE VOICE OF MIRTH AND THE VOICE OF GLADNESS, THE VOICE OF THE BRIDEGROOM AND THE VOICE OF THE BRIDE; FOR THE LAND SHALL BECOME A WASTE" [Jeremiah 7:32-34].

 John Calvin, "For within fifty years the city was destroyed and the temple ruined, THE WHOLE COUNTRY WAS REDUCED TO A HIDEOUS DESERT." "Commentary on a Harmony of the Evangelist, Matthew, Mark, and Luke." All Israel, the whole nation, not just the temple was totally destroyed, "reduced to a hideous desert."

 David Chilton, "'Let Him be Crucified! Let Him be Crucified! His blood be on us, and on our children!' the apostates had cried forty years earlier (Matthew 27:22-25); and when it was all over, more than a million Jews had been killed in the siege of Jerusalem; close to a million more were sold into slavery throughout the empire, and whole of Judea lay smoldering in ruins, virtually depopulate." "The Great Tribulation" 1987, Dominion Press.

 Josephus says, "The countryside, life the city, was a pitiful sight, for where once there had been a multitude of trees and parks, there was now an utter wilderness stripped bare of timber; and no stranger who has seen the old Judea and the glorious suburbs of her capital, and now beheld utter desolation, could refrain from tears or suppress a groan at so terrible a change. The war had blotted out every trace of beauty, and no one who had known it in the past and came upon it suddenly would have recognized the place, for though he was already there, he would still have been looking for the city" The Jewish War.

 "The Dead Sea too was filled with corpses which the river (the Jordan River) carried down to it by the thousands" Josephus.

 "And except these days had been shortened, no flesh would have been saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened" [Matthew 24:22]. If the war had gone on it would have reached beyond Israel unto Pella and other cities in the mountains where many Christians were that had left Israel; but it was stopped before it reached them. "No flesh" will be saved at the second coming. "Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God" [1 Corinthians 15:50]. That the days were shortened and some flesh was saved proves this is not speaking of the second coming of Christ.

 [4] HE (CHRIST) IS NIGH, EVEN AT THE DOORS: Matthew 24:32-44. "Now from the fig tree learn her parable: when her branch is now become tender, and puts forth its leaves, you know that the summer is nigh; (33) even so you also, WHEN YOU SEE ALL THESE THINGS, KNOW YOU THAT HE IS NIGH, EVEN AT THE DOORS. (34) VERILY I SAY UNTO YOU, THIS GENERATION SHALL NOT PASS AWAY, TILL ALL THESE THINGS BE ACCOMPLISHED. (35) Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. (36) But of that day and hour knows no one, not even the angels of heaven, neither the Son, but the Father only. (37) And as were the days of Noah, so shall be the coming of the Son of man. (38) For in those days which were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark, (39) and they knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall be the coming of the Son of man. (40) Then shall two men be in the field; one is taken, and one is left; (41) two women shall be grinding at the mill; one is taken, and one is left. (42) Watch; therefore: for you know not on what day your Lord comes. (43) But know this that if the master of the house had known in what watch the thief was coming, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to broken through. (44) Therefore be you also ready; for in an hour that you think not the Son of man comes." This makes it clear that all Jesus had said before this applies to the destruction of Jerusalem and not to His second coming for "this generation" has long ago passed away. "ALL THESE THINGS" are the things He has just told them. When they saw the signs coming to pass, they know that the end of the temple and Israel was at hand. Although we should watch and always be ready, we are not given any signs, as they were, that we can see and know that His coming is soon, not even that it will be in our lifetime or in the next thousand or ten thousand years. Commentaries on verses 35-44 are divided on whether this is speaking of the coming of Christ in judgment on Israel or His second coming. It seems unlikely to me that He would have changed from speaking of judgment on Israel in verse 34, then His second coming in verse 35, and back to judgment on Israel in verse 40 with nothing to show He changed. He was speaking to His disciples at this time [Matthew 24:1], and telling them they were to watch for the signs He gave them of His coming in judgment on Israel. We are given no signs to watch for but are always to be ready for His second coming.

 "ALL THESE THINGS" Is things before 70 A. D., not at the second coming of Jesus. Luke says, "But when THESE THINGS begin to come to pass, look up, and lift up your heads; because your redemption draws nigh" [Luke 21:38]. This redemption draws nigh to those of that generation. It was a redemption from the persecution of the Jews. "This generation shall not pass away, till ALL THINGS be accomplished" Luke 21:32. Not the redemption of the U. S. from Russia or any other redemption today.

 "But before all THESE THINGS, they shall lay hands on you, and shall persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons" Luke 21:12.

 "This generation shall not pass away, till ALL THINGS be accomplished" Luke 21:32, Matthew 24:34.

 "As for THESE THINGS which you behold (The temple and how it was adorned) the days will come, in which there shall not be left here one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down" Luke 21:5.

 "When therefore shall THESE THINGS be?" (Not one stone upon another) Luke 21:7.

 "And what shall be the sign when THESE THINGS are about to come to pass?" Luke 21:7.

 "And when you shall hear of wars and tumults, be not terrified: for THESE THINGS must needs come to pass first; but the end is not immediately" Luke 21:9.

 "But when THESE THINGS begin to come to pass" Luke 21:28.

 "Even so you also, when you see THESE THINGS coming to pass" Luke 21:31.

 "But watch you at every season, making supplication, that you may prevail to escape all THESE THINGS that shall come to pass" Luke 21:36.

 Matthew 24:34 is a key to understanding all that came to pass before it, all that has been said up to this point must come before "this generation" would pass away. Not at the second coming of Jesus at the end of the world. A generation is about 40 years. It is the same "generation" spoken of in Matthew 23:36.

 Matthew 24:35 "Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away." He had assured them that the end of Jerusalem was coming, now He assured them that His word would come to pass, that the heavens would end and the earth would pass away but not His word; the end of Jerusalem was sure. He may be speaking of the end of the Jewish heavens and earth, the end of their nation, not the end of the world. They did not know the season when the end would come but was told to pray that it be not in the winter season nor did they know the day but were told to pray that it not be on a Sabbath Day. "But watch you at every season, making supplication, THAT YOU MAY PREVAIL TO ESCAPE ALL THESE THINGS THAT SHALL COME TO PASS, and to stand before the Son of man" [Luke 21:36; Matthew 24:42-44; Mark 13:35-37]. The Christians did watch and did escape all these things, all the things He has just warned them about that were coming to Israel; but no one will escape the judgment to come.

 Just as Noah warned of the destruction of the world but did not give the exact time and all went on with their lives and did not pay attention to the warning, the warning of Christ was not heeded by the Jews and the end came when they were not looking for it. As in the flood only the evil was destroyed and the righteous saved, the unbelieving Jews were destroyed and the believers were saved; "two men in the field; one will be taken, and one will be left." The righteous would be left.

 JOSEPHUS, the Jewish first century historian, recorded concerning the year 70, "Thus were the miserable people persuaded by these deceivers, and such as belied God himself; while they did not attend, nor give credit to the signs that were so evident and did so plainly foretell their future desolation; but, like men infatuated, without either eyes to see, or minds to consider, did not regard the denunciations that God made to them." Josephus, who was not a Christian, understood these signs to be related to the soon-coming judgment. This coming in judgment was fulfilled in the destruction of the temple, the city of Jerusalem, and all the nation of Israel.

 JOHN LIGHTFOOT (1859) "This generation shall not pass. Hence, it appears plain enough that the foregoing verses are not to be understood of the last judgment but, as we said, of the destruction of Jerusalem." (A Commentary of The New Testament, Volume 2, Page 320).

 JOHN WESLEY (1754) "This generation of men now living shall not pass till all these things be done - The expression implies that great part of that generation would be passed away, but not the whole. Just so it was; for the city and temple were destroyed thirty-nine or forty years after."

 MATTHEW HENRY "As to these things, the wars, seductions, and persecutions, here foretold, and especially of the ruin of the Jewish nation; 'This generation shall not pass away, till all these things be fulfilled (Mt 24:34); there are those now alive that shall see Jerusalem destroyed, AND THE JEWISH CHURCH BROUGHT TO AN END." One Volume Commentary on the Whole Bible.

 JAMES D. BALES "And the destruction of the whole Jewish economy was the fulfillment of the rest of it (Joel's prophecy of the last days Acts 2:16-21). If there was one thing the Jew felt sure of it was that Jerusalem was the favored city of God, that its future supremacy among the nations was as certain to come as the sunrise. Its sacrifices would always be acceptable offered on the altars by the sons of Levi. Now we see the national life of Israel forever ended; the temple forever closed; the sacrifices become useless; the priesthood forgotten; and Israel no more to God than any other nation...If you could think of a pious Jew having gone to sleep three years before Christ was crucified and then wakened in a few years after the destruction of Jerusalem, what an utter bewilderment he would have! All that he supposed to be permanent was gone, and in place of it a company of men preaching God's love to all men, worshiping in all places, and claiming earthly dominion in none. He would well say this in indeed what Joel said to us." The Hub Of The Bible Or Acts Two Analyzed, Page 70, 1960.

 [5] ISRAEL THE UNFAITHFUL SERVANT: Matthew 24:45-51. "Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his lord has set over his household, to give them their food in due season? (46) Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he comes shall find so doing. (47) Verily I say unto you, that he will set him over all that he has. (48) But if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord terries; (49) and shall begin to beat his fellow-servants, and shall eat and drink with the drunken; (50) the lord of that servant shall come in a day when he expects not, and in an hour when he knows not, (51) and shall cut him asunder, and appoint his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." Like all parables, all that are in them are not to be taken literally. They teach a lesson which is the main point of the parable. The point of this one is that Israel had been unfaithful and a judgment was coming.

 [6] UNPROFITABLE SERVANT - OUTER DARKNESS: Matthew 25:30; 8:12; 22:13. IT WAS THE "UNPROFITABLE SERVANT" AND "SONS OF THE KINGDOM" THAT WERE CAST INTO OUTER DARKNESS, NOT THE ONES WHO NEVER BELIEVED, NOT THE LOST FOR THEY WERE NEVER IN THE KINGDOM. The Jews who rejected Christ were cast out of the light, no longer to be God's chosen people, into the darkness of the world without the light of God's revelation. Christ said many [the Gentiles] shall "came from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven; but the sons of the kingdom shall be cast forth into outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth." This says nothing about there being outer darkness in Hell. Fire and darkness do not go together. "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that kills the prophets, and stones them that are sent unto her! How often would I have gathered your children together, even as a hen gathers her own brood under her wings, and you would not! Behold, your house is left unto you desolate" [Luke 13:33-34]. Their house without God in it is darkness.

 [7] THE WRATH IS COME UPON THEM TO THE UTTERMOST: "And all the people answered and said, His blood be on us and on our children!" [Matthew 27:25]. "For you also suffered the same things of your own countrymen, even as they did of the Jews; who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove out us, and please not God, and are contrary to all men; forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved; to fill up their sins always: BUT THE WRATH IS COME UPON THEM TO THE UTTERMOST" [1 Thessalonians 2:14-16]. This was written about A. D. 53, just a few years before the destruction of the nation of Israel in A. D. 70.

 [8] MORE TOLERABLE: Christ spoke of the Day of Judgment for lands or cities. More tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah than for the cities that did not receive those He sent out [Matthew 10:14-15, Mark 6:11, Luke 10:10-12]. More tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah than for Chorazin, Bethsaida, and Capernaum [Matthew 11:21-24, Luke 10:10-12]. WHEN ARE CITIES AND NATIONS JUDGED? WHEN IS THEIR DAY OF JUDGMENT TO BE? "And you, Capernaum, will not be exalted to heaven, will you? You shall descend to Hades" [Matthew 11:23]. It was a great city but would go down to hades-the grave. Today, there are only a few ruins of Capernaum. They went from greatness (exalted to heaven) to non-existence (hades-the grave). Individuals, not nations and cities will be judged at the judgment at the second coming of Christ. Matthew 24 is of the judgment of Jerusalem [Matthew 23:36-38]. ALL THESE CITIES HAVE HAD A DAY OF JUDGMENT AND WERE BROUGHT DOWN TO THE GRAVE. THE DAY OF JUDGMENT FOR THEM IS PAST. The destruction of Sodom was quick and soon over. The destruction of Jerusalem, which saw and rejected Christ was long and drawn out with much more suffering, therefore, much less tolerable. The Day of Judgment for a city or a nation is the time when God will cause it to be destroyed. The Old Testament is full of God's judgment of cities and nations. THE DESTRUCTION OF THE CITIES THAT REJECTED CHRIST AND HIS APOSTLES WERE WORSE (Matthew 24:21) THAN THE DESTRUCTION OF THOSE IN THE OLD TESTAMENT. "These twelve Jesus sent out after instructing them, saying, Do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter any city of the Samaritans; but rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And as you go, preach, saying the kingdom of heaven is at hand...And as you enter the house, give it your greeting. And if the house is worthy, let your greeting of peace come upon it; but if it is not worthy, let your greeting of peace return to you. And whoever does not receive you, not heed your word, as you go out of that house or that city, shake off the dust of your feet. Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city. Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves; therefore be shrewd as serpents, and innocent as doves. But, beware of men; for they will deliver you up to the courts, and scourge you in their synagogues; and you shall even be brought before governors and kings for My sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. But, when they deliver you up, do not become anxious about how or what you will speak; for it shall be given you in that hour what you are to speak. For it is not you who speak, but it is the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you. And brother will deliver up brother to death, and father his child; and children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all on account of My name, but it is the one who has endured to the end who will be saved. But whenever they persecute you in this city, flee to the next; for truly I say to you, YOU SHALL NOT FINISH GOING THROUGH THE CITES OF ISRAEL, UNTIL THE SON OF MAN COMES" [Matthew 10:5-23]. He did come in a judgment on these cities and though all were destroyed, the destruction of Old Testament cities was much less terrible than was the destruction of Israel and her cities. Christ coming in judgment on a city or nation in the Old Testament or the New Testament is not the second coming of Christ when the saved will put on immortality.

 [9] DAUGHTERS OF JERUSALEM: Luke 23:27-31. When Jesus was being led to be crucified "there followed him a great multitude of the people, and of whom men who bewailed and lamented him. But, Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children. For behold, the days are coming, in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the breasts that never give suck. Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and the hills, Cover us. For if they do these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry?" Even at the time of His death the sufferings and the great tribulation soon coming to Israel was on His mind. See Hosea 19:7-8 where they cry to the mountains to cover them in the destruction of Samaria, which is an Old Testament expression of wanting to escape destruction.

 [10] "YOU HOUSE IS LEFT UNTO YOU DESOLATE" [Matthew 23:38; Luke 13:35] God left the temple. "And behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom" [Matthew 27:51]. As it is sometimes said today when an entertainer has finished, "God has left the building." After they put to death their saver, God gives them forty years to repent, but the book of Acts is a history of the "generation of vipers" persecuting and putting to death those who God sent to save them. They brought upon themselves a retribution of such severity that it was as if they had killed all the prophets God had sent to turn Israel from their sin [Matthew 23:34-35].

 IS MATTHEW 24:36 A "TRANSITION TEXT?" Many think Matthew 24:36 is the "time text" or "transition text" where Jesus changes from the destruction of Israel to the second coming at the end of the world. Luke gives this view a problem. In his discourse to the disciples a few days before His discourse at Jerusalem, Luke put both the "two women" [Luke 17:35-36] and "as it was in the days of Noah" [Luke 17:26-27] before this "time text" [Luke 17:37]. If this were the "transition text" Matthew put both after the "transition text" and Luke put both before it. Luke also used "that day" in reference to the destruction of Israel, not of the second coming [Luke 17:31, Matthew 24:17].

 The A. D. 70 doctrine that all the passages which speak of the second coming were fulfilled in A. D. 70 is not true. It is not my intentions to go into this doctrine; therefore, I will give only two of many passages that could be used. "So Christ also, having been once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear a second time, apart from sin, to them that wait for him, unto salvation" [Hebrews 9:28] and "I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I come again, and will receive you unto myself; that where I am, there you may be also" [John 14:2-3]. No one went to the place Christ went to prepare in A. D. 70 and no one will go to it before the resurrection.

 SUMMARY:

 Christ came when He set up His kingdom [Matthew 16:28; Mark 9:1] on the day of Pentecost [Acts 2].

 Christ came in judgment on Israel in A. D. 70.

 But, neither of these is His coming in person at the end of this age [1 Thessalonians 3:13-18].

 The destruction of the temple put an end to the worship of Israel, the destruction of their genealogical records put an end to their identity and an end to their existence as a nation.

 THE A. D. 70 DOCTRINE

 WAS A. D. 70 THE SECOND AND FINAL COMING OF CHRIST? OR IS THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST AND THE JUDGMENT OF ALL YET TO COME?

 Preterit Eschatology, also called Realized Eschatology, Fulfilled Eschatology, Covenant Eschatology, and the A. D. 70 doctrine is the doctrine that:

 The second coming of Christ was an invisible coming in A. D. 70, and He will not come again. There will be no resurrection and judgment day to come for all at the coming of Christ.

 The resurrection was when all the Old Testament saints were resurrected in A. D. 70. The "judgment day" was when the Jewish age ended in A. D. 70.

 After A. D. 70 all that die in Christ go to their eternal reward at the moment of death.

 The Great Commission given in Matthew 28:18-19 has been completely fulfilled therefore, it is not for us today.

 The old heavens and earth have passed away, and the new heavens and earth are now here.

 According to them all the New Testament was written before A. D. 70, and there is no revelation about anything that will happen after A. D. 70; therefore, there is no revelation about when or even if the earth will ever end. They must deny the vast amount of evident that much of the New Testament (including Peter's letters and Revelation) was written after A. D. 70 for if just one book was written after that date the Preterit Eschatology could not be true.

 According to them all the New Testament writer believed that the coming of Christ was to be in their lifetime. This has been covered in detail in throughout this book; what did the early non inspired writers say? From Florida College Annual Lectures, Almon L. Williams, 1986, page 217.

 Isnatius: "These are the last times"

 Barnabas: "Wherefore let us take heed in these last days"

 Clement: "Herein He speaks of the day of this appearing, when He shall come and redeem us, each man according to his works. And the unbelievers shall see His glory and His might: and they shall be amazed"

 Clement: "But you know that the day of judgment comes even now as a burning oven, and the powers of the heaven shall melt, and the earth as lead melting on the fire, and than shall appear the secret and open works of man"

 Polycarp: "Now He that raised Him from the dead will raise up also...Whoever shall pervert the oracles of the Lord to his own lusts and say there is neither resurrection nor judgment, that man is first-born of Satan"

 There was revelation given in the Old Testament on the establishment of the kingdom [Micah 4:1] and the resurrection of Christ was given in types and shadows as Moses lifting up the serpent in the wilderness [John 3:14]; which few if any understood, but the doctrine of the resurrection, life, and immortality, which Christ taught, were new. The words, resurrection, immortal, and immortality are not in the Old Testament in the King James Version or the American Standard Version. The resurrection was new to the heathen world, which believed in an immortal soul that had no need for a resurrection. The first coming of Christ, His suffering and rejection, His death and resurrection were told about in the Old Testament; but there is noting about His second coming in it. The second coming of Christ, the resurrection, the judgment of all at His second coming and the promise of life after death in Heaven was new to the New Testament.

 THE NEW TESTAMENT CLEARLY TEACHES THAT THE SECOND COMING, THE RESURRECTION OF ALL, AND THE JUDGMENT OF ALL HAS NOT COME. All the lost will awake from the dead and the saved will awake to eternal life at the same time. IT WILL BE A RESURRECTION OF THE DEAD, NOT AS REALIZED ESCHATOLOGY TEACHES, DEATH IS ONLY A CHANGE FROM ONE KIND OF LIFE TO ANOTHER KIND OF LIFE, WHICH WOULD NOT BE A RESURRECTION AND WOULD MAKE A RESURRECTION IMPOSSIBLE.

 John 5:28-29: "For an hour is coming, in which all who are in the tombs will hear His voice, and will come forth; those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment." ALL, both the good and the evil will BE RESURRECTED FROM THE DEAD IN THE SAME HOUR, NOT SOME OVER TWO THOUSAND YEARS APART FROM A. D. 70 TO NOW AND STILL COUNTING; AND NOT CHANGED FROM ONE FORM OF LIFE TO ANTHER FORM OF LIFE AT DEATH WITHOUT A RESURRECTION.

 Philippians 3:20-21: "For our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ; who will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of His glory, by the exertion of the power that He has even to subject all things to Himself." Our body being transformed into conformity with His body is at His coming from Heaven, not at our death. Christ does not come from Heaven ever time a person dies. That there will be a resurrection and judgment of all at the second coming of Christ is discussed throughout this book and in the review below.

 A REVIEW OF "THE RESURRECTION OF THE DEAD" By Samuel Dawson

 A web page in which he attempts to prove from 1 Corinthians 15

 that the Old Testament does teach that the dead will be resurrected to eternal life

 and that this resurrection was in A. D. 70.

 Dawson says, "I think West inadvertently gives the Old Testament's teaching of the subject short shrift. You can be a good guy and do that because I've done exactly the same thing." Below is an examination of how he thinks I give the Old Testament teaching of the resurrection short shrift.

 Some point to restoring of the nation of Israel as a nation as being a resurrection, but the restoring or resurrection of Israel as a nation is not the resurrection of the New Testament. It is not the resurrecting of a person to eternal life or immortality. Not even the resurrection of a nation to immortality or to eternal life. IT IS NOT EVEN CLOSE TO BEING THE RESURRECTION TAUGHT IN THE NEW TESTAMENT. "Behold, I will cause breath to enter you that you may come to life" [Ezekiel 37:5] is speaking of a nation being restored as a nation, the people that were alive but in captivity being restored to their land and coming to life as a nation, this is not of the resurrection of a single person that was dead; there is nothing in it about anyone or any nation being given immortality. THE RESURRECTION TAUGHT IN THE NEW TESTAMENT IS NOT THE RESURRECTION OF A NATION (RESTORING THAT NATION ONLY FOR A SHORT TIME) BUT IS THE RESURRECTION OF INDIVIDUALS TO ETERNAL LIFE AND THERE IS NOTHING LIKE IT IN THE OLD TESTAMENT. There is nothing in 1 Corinthians 15, or any of the New Testament about the resurrection of "fleshly bodies" at the coming of Christ. No one put on immortality in A. D. 70, and no one's corruptible (fleshly) bodies were changed to incorruption, and all that were living in A. D. 70 died, death was not "swallowed up in victory" [1 Corinthians 15:54] as it will be at the coming of Christ. IF PAUL WERE NOT SPEAKING OF A RESURRECTION THAT WILL COME AFTER THIS LIFETIME, THEN WHEN HE SAID, "THEN THEY ALSO THAT ARE FALLEN ASLEEP IN CHRIST HAVE PERISHED" THEY HAD PERISHED (depicting a process that had pass before Paul wrote this, not "an on going process." They had perished - died before he wrote, not were perishing - dying at the time he wrote) [1 Corinthians 15:18]; he was speaking of some that had died past tense that were dead present tense in about A. D. 57, but still would be raised, future tense, with a spiritual body at the coming of Christ. PAUL WAS NOT SPEAKING OF A RESURRECTION THAT HAD PASSED OR THAT WAS TAKING PLACE AT THAT TIME, BUT OF THE RESURRECTION TO LIFE AND IMMORTALITY THAT WILL NOT TAKE PLACE UNTO THE COMING OF CHRIST. At the coming of Christ, all the saved that have died ("fallen asleep") "the dead in Christ shall rise" and the living saints will be changed and both at the same time shall be caught up to meet the Lord in the air and shall "ever be with the Lord" [1 Thessalonians 3:14-17]; this did not happen in A. D. 70, and those who are fallen asleep are not yet with Christ. PAUL SAYS THE RESURRECTION OF THOSE WHO ARE ASLEEP IN CHRIST, AND PUTTING ON IMMORTALITY BY THOSE WHO ARE LIVING WILL BOTH BE AT THE SAME MOMENT, BOTH IN THE TWINKLING OF AN EYE. REALIZED ESCHATOLOGY SAYS, "NOT SO PAUL, THE RESURRECTION OF THE OLD TESTAMENT SAINT WAS IN A. D. 70, BUT THERE WILL BE NO RESURRECTION FOR US AS WE WILL BE CHANGED AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH, BOTH ARE NOT CHANGED IN THE SAME MOMENT." IF ALL WERE TRANSFORMED (RECEIVES A "SPIRITUAL BODY" IN WHICH THEY WILL DWELL IN IMMEDIATELY AND ETERNALLY AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH) NOTHING IS RESURRECTED; THERE WOULD BE NO RESURRECTION FOR ANYONE AFTER A. D. 70. ACCORDING TO THEM, THE ONLY RESURRECTION IN THE BIBLE WAS AT A. D. 70 AND IT IS PASSED. THERE WILL BE NO RESURRECTION AND JUDGMENT DAY FOR ANYONE. "Faithful is the saying: For if we died with him, we shall also live with him...Hymenaeus and Philetus; men who concerning the truth have erred, saying the resurrection is past already" [2 Timothy 10-19]. ISRAEL WAS NOT DELIVERED IN A. D. 70, BUT WAS JUDGED AND DESTROYED. THERE IS NOTHING IN 1 CORINTHIANS 15, MATTHEW 24, OR ANY PASSAGE ABOUT ISRAEL BEING RESURRECTED OR RESTORED IN A. D. 70.

 On page 6 he says, "Behold, I will cause breath to enter you that you may come to life" Ezekiel 37 refers to the death of Israel, then says, "West is absolutely right that the word 'resurrection' isn't there, but what word should we call the process whereby Israel was dead, and God's purpose was to bring them to life." He needs to see that when the Old Testament speaks of restoring or resurrecting a nation to life as a nation that would die again, it is not speaking of the resurrection to eternal life of even one dead person. Not one dead person was restored to life and given immortality. There is no promise that anyone would ever be given immortality in the Old Testament. No nation, not even Israel, will ever be given immortality; but the saved individuals of all nations will at the resurrection. HOW CAN HE NOT SEE THAT THE RESURRECTION OR RESTORING OF ISRAEL AS A NATION FOR ONLY A SHORT TIME IN EZEKIEL 37 IS NOTHING LIKE THE RESURRECTION OF INDIVIDUALS TO IMMORTALITY PAUL WAS SPEAKING OF IN 1 CORINTHIANS 15? When Israel was restored as a nation after the seventy-year captivity in Daniel, it was not even the same individuals in "the resurrection" of the nation that was in Israel before the captivity from which the nation was resurrected. One group of Jews went into the captivity and Israel died as a nation, another group of Jews came out of the captivity and Israel were restored or resurrected as a nation; not one dead Jew was resurrected, not one person was resurrected to eternal life. The many restorations of Israel as a nation from captivity in the Old Testament, which was one hundred percent physical earthly restoring of a nation, is not the resurrection to eternal life for those who are in Christ, not the resurrection OF THE DEAD in 1 Corinthians 15. NOT ONE DEAD PERSON WAS RESURRECTED TO ETERNAL LIFE IN ANY OF THE RESURRECTIONS OR RESTORING OF ISRAEL AS A NATION; THERE IS NOTHING SAID IN ANY OF ISRAEL'S RESURRECTION AS A NATION ABOUT ANY PERSON EVER BEING GIVEN IMMORTALITY.

 Page 89: "'We all shall not sleep, but we shall all be changed' Here's a time statement. When Paul said, 'We shall not all sleep,' he affirmed that not all of those in Corinth were going to die physically before the resurrection happened" Samuel G. Dawson. IF PAUL WERE SAYING NOT ALL WOULD DIE PHYSICALLY BEFORE THE RESURRECTION HAPPENED IN A. D. 70, THEN HE WAS ALSO SAYING ALL THOSE IN CORINTH AND ALL LIVING CHRISTIANS WOULD BE CHANGED FROM PHYSICAL BODIES TO SPIRITUAL BODIES WHEN THE RESURRECTION DID HAPPEN IN A. D. 70. LIVING CHRISTIANS WAS NOT CHANGED AT THAT TIME, AND BOTH CHRISTIANS AND NON CHRISTIANS STILL HAD PHYSICAL BODIES AFTER A. D.70 JUST AS THEY DID BEFORE IT, AND ALL STILL HAVE PHYSICAL BODIES TODAY. THIS TEACHING WOULD HAVE MADE THE CHURCH ON EARTH GO OUT OF EXISTENCE ON EARTH IN A. D. 70. NO ONE WILL HAVE THE SPIRITUAL BODY BEFORE THE RESURRECTION. Read this "time statement" in the context, "Behold, I tell you a mystery: We all shall not sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. But, when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory" [1 Corinthians 15:51-53]. The "time" is when "the trumpet shall sound." At the sound of the trumpet, "the dead shall be raised incorruptible" AND "we shall be changed," BOTH THE LIVING AND THE DEAD IN THE SAME MOMENT, BOTH THE LIVING AND THE DEAD IN THE SAME TWINKLING OF AN EYE, BOTH THE LIVING AND THE DEAD AT THE SOUND OF THE SAME TRUMPET. ALL LIVING CHRISTIANS WILL BE CHANGED FROM PHYSICAL BODIES TO SPIRITUAL BODIES IN THE SAME MOMENT THE DEAD ARE RESURRECTED WITH SPIRITUAL BODIES. If this had happened in A. D. 70, there would have been no Christians for the Romans to put to death. He changed, "and we shall all be changed" to "not all of those in Corinth were going to die physically before the resurrection happened" with nothing happing to them in A. D. 70, with nothing happing to them at the time of the resurrection, nothing "in the same moment." If I understand him, he says the living Christians in Corinth were not going to be changed "in the same moment" but each one changed in a different moment, the moment of their death, which for many of them would not be in A. D. 70; and each Christian is changed to a spiritual body at a different moment than all other Christians. On page 57 he again changed "we shall all be changed in a moment" to the Old Covenant faithful being taken from the unseen Hadean state into the presence of Christ in the twinkling of an eye. It seems that Paul's "we" must be changed to "them." "Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we (them?) shall all (only all of "them," not "we") be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump" [1 Corinthians 15:51]. Does he think the first "we" is us but the second "we" them? If the first "we" is "them," some of the "them" did not all sleep, then some of the Old Covenant faithful was alive in when Paul was writing this in A. D. 67 or 68, alive before A. D. 70.

 "We that are alive." It is believed that Paul was put to death in about A. D. 67 or 68. If Christ did come in A. D. 70, Paul is not in the "we that are alive" at His coming.

 "But, some one will ask, How are the dead raised? And with what manner of body do they come?" [1 Corinthians 15:35]. Paul was reassuring the Corinthians that the Corinthians that had "fallen asleep in Christ" had not perished, that their hope of the resurrection did not depend on them being alive at the time of the resurrection [1 Corinthians 15:18-19]. Dawson says, "Who were these 'dead ones?' They were the same Old Covenant dead ones Paul discussed throughout the chapter." HE SAYS, "WHEN WE CHANGE WHO THE 'WE' WAS, WE TOTALLY MISS THE TIME ELEMENT IN PAUL'S TEACHING." THEN HE CHANGED THE "WE" FROM "WE" TO "THEM"; HE CHANGES FROM THE ONES PAUL WAS WRITING TO AT CORINTH ABOUT THOSE IN CORINTH WHO HAD FALLEN ASLEEP "IN CHRIST" TO THOSE WHO HAD BEEN DEAD FOR MANY YEARS; HE CHANGED THE "WE" TO ABRAHAM AND ALL THE OLD TESTAMENT SAINTS. He "totally miss the time element in Paul's teaching" by changing the "we" from those who were alive at the time Paul was writing to "them," to those who had been dead for many years The "dead ones" are the Corinthians that had fallen asleep in Christ, not Old Testament saints who are not even mentioned in 1 Corinthians 15. On pages 85 -88 he attempts to make the "natural body" be Old Testament Israel and the "spiritual body" be the new Israel; when he makes Israel be the "natural body" and the church be the "spiritual body," he takes the resurrection of the dead out of I Corinthians 15. In about A. D. 57, 13 years before A. D. 70, he has the old Israel "being sown a natural body, it is being raised a spiritual body." Paul said, "And as WE HAVE borne the image of the earthly (Adam, 15:45 a natural or earthly corruptible body), WE SHALL also bear the image of the heavenly (Christ, a spiritual incorruptible body)" [1 Corinthians 15:49]. He changes the "we have borne" to "is being sown" and "we shall also bear the image" to "is being raised." Then changes "we" (us) to "it" (Israel).

 On page 77 he says, "Literally, Paul asked, 'How are the dead ones being raised?'" 1 Corinthians 15 was written about 13 years before A. D. 70, - 13 years before he says Christ came, 13 years before he says the Old Covenant saints were raised he has Paul asking, "How are the dead ones being raised?" Did he forget that he had used "then they that are Christ's at His coming" and applied it to the resurrection of the Old Covenant faithful? Did he forget that he had applied, "Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we (them-Old Testament saints-Dawson) shall all (them-Old Testament saints-Dawson) be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump" [1 Corinthians 15:51]. Yet, he has them being raised 13 years before the moment, before the twinkling of an eye. On page 85 he says, "Literally, it is 'it is being sown a natural body, it is being raised a spiritual body'" If he is not saying Old Covenant saints were being sown with a natural body and being raised with a spiritual body about 13 years before he says Christ came a second time, about 13 years before he says the resurrection occurred. Does he really believe Old Covenant saints were being sown with a natural body in about A. D. 57 when Paul was writing this? "Presently 'is being raised'" is used on page 91 and throughout the 110 pages. He puts "is being raised" in quotation marks. Paul said, "Shall be raised incorruptible" [1 Corinthians 15:52]. "Presently 'is being raised'" is in no translation but his and then it puts the resurrection as taking place 13 years to soon for the Realized Eschatology view that the resurrection took place in A. D. 70.

 On page 99 he quarts Christ saying 6 times of those who believe Him, "I will raise him up at the last day" [John 6:39; 640; 6:44; 6:54; 11:24; 12:48]. Which one does he believe? That the Old Testament faithful was being raised in A. D. 57 when Paul wrote 1 Corinthians or "at the last day" which he says was in A. D. 70? Christ is saying this to ALL THAT BELIEVED HIM, not just to the Jews that believe Him. Dawson says the Old Covenant had a last day but the New Covenant will not have a last day. Christ was not speaking of the last day of the Old or the New Covenant. He was speaking of the last day of the earth, "The day of the Lord" spoken of in 2 Peter 3:10 (see "The Day Of The Lord" below). Both John and Revelation (and other New Testament books) were written after A. D. 70.

 1 Corinthians 15:45-49: On page 87 he changes the "natural" and "spiritual" to the Old Testament faithful being changed "from natural to spiritual as the result of the gospel" and this is in about A. D. 57 when Paul said this, before A. D. 70, which he says is when the second coming of Christ was, and before when he says the resurrection of the Old Testament faithful ones did take place. How he could think that "the first man Adam became a living soul" is speaking of the Old Testament faithful is beyond my understanding. There is nothing in this passage about Adam being Israel. "Then the Lord God formed man (Adam) of the dust from the ground, and breathed into his (Adam) nostrils the breath of life; and man (Adam) became a living soul" [Genesis 2:7]. Adam was the first man, not the nation of Israel. Adam was the natural man made "of the earth," not Israel. Both Adam and Christ (when He was on earth) were "a man," Israel was a nation. Christ is (present tense) "the second man is of heaven" [1 Corinthians 15:47]. By pointing out that this is present tense, he is saying that "the second man is of heaven" cannot be Christ, that the "second man" of heaven is the Old Testament faithful ones. If this is not what he is saying, then I cannot understand what he is saying; is he not saying that Christ is not of heaven, present tense in A. D. 57; is he not saying the Old Testament faithful ones was "the second man of heaven" 13 years before their resurrection in A. D. 70? This seems to me to be nothing more than a desperate attempt to make the resurrection be passed even if he has to use something that was, present tense, 13 years to soon for it to be speaking of something that was to be, future tense, in A. D. 70.

 On page 92 and others pages, it seems to me that he basis his whole argument on all that believes the resurrection is yet to come must also believe the resurrection is to be "a physical resurrection out of the dust." He is taking what some men teach and making it be the teaching of the Bible for his argument depends on it. THERE IS NOTHING IN 1 CORINTHIANS 15 ABOUT "A PHYSICAL RESURRECTION OUT OF THE DUST." HE IS ATTEMPTING TO PROVE THIS IS SPEAKING OF THE RESURRECTION OF OLD TESTAMENT SAINTS JUST BECAUSE IT IS NOT SPEAKING OF THE RESURRECTION OF BODIES OUT OF THE DUST. TRY AS HARD AS I CAN, I CANNOT SEE HOW HE SEES THE RESURRECTION OF OLD TESTAMENT SAINTS JUST BECAUSE IT IS NOT SPEAKING OF EARTHLY BODIES WHEN THERE IS NOTHING IN THE CHAPTER THAT SAYS ANYTHING ABOUT OLD TESTAMENT SAINTS OR ISRAEL. It could not be said any clearer that it is "sown in corruption (a physical body of dust) it is raised in incorruption (NOT a physical body of dust)" [1 Corinthians 15:42]. HE MAKES A PHYSICAL RESURRECTION A MUST FOR HIS ARGUMENT, BUT THERE IS NOTHING IN THE NEW TESTAMENT THAT TEACHES A PHYSICAL BODY OF DUST IS TO BE RAISED AT THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. He repeatedly accused others of believing in "a physical resurrection out of the dirt, although we can't read that interpretation back into Isaiah," but then on the same page (page 92) quotes Isaiah, "Your dead shall arise. Your dead will live; Their corpses will rise, You who lie in the dust, awake and shout for joy, For your dew is as the dew of the dawn, And the earth will give birth to the departed spirits" [Isaiah 26:19]. Then says the resurrection of those lying in the dust sounds identical to Daniel 12:2, which says, "And many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground will awake." When he said no serious student of the prophets believes a physical resurrection of a physical body is depicted in Isaiah 25 he was right. Just as Ezekiel's valley of bones coming to life, a physical resurrection, in Ezekiel 37 is figuratively language of the nation being restored to life as a nation, Isaiah 26:19 is figuratively language of a physical resurrection of the dead who had turned to dust, Israel is the dead nation that is being restored to life from the dust and would live again as a nation. Neither one is teaching the resurrection to eternal life that is taught in the New Testament. Nevertheless, he attempts to somehow use Isaiah to prove Paul was not speaking of the resurrection of the dead at the coming of Christ but Paul was only speaking of the resurrection of the Old Testament faithful in A. D. 70.

 "But thanks be to God, who gives US the victory through OUR Lord Jesus Christ. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, be YOU steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as YOU know that YOUR labor is not vain in the Lord" [1 Corinthians 15:57-58, American Standard Version]. Throughout chapter 15 Paul is speaking to the Corinthians about THEIR resurrection, not the resurrection of Israel.

 "But we do not want you to be uninformed, brethren, about those who are asleep, so that you will not grieve as do the rest who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with Him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we shall always be with the Lord" [1 Thessalonians 4:13-17]. THE CHRISTIANS WHO WERE ALIVE IN A. D. 70 WERE NOT AT THAT TIME CHANGED FROM PHYSICAL TO SPIRITUAL BODIES. I do not believe Dawson believes they were. I believe he was not trying to prove anyone alive was changed to a spiritual body in A. D. 70, but was trying to prove the Old Testament saints were resurrected and changed in A. D. 70, and after that time all saints are changed at the time of their death; not "caught up TOGETHER with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air." He is trying to prove there was one resurrection of all the Old Testament faithful in A. D. 70, then many resurrections, a resurrection at the time of death of each faithful. If this is not what he is trying to prove, them I cannot understand what he is saying.

 WHEN DID THE OLD COVENANT END? At the death of Christ or in A. D. 70?

 "Having been buried with him in baptism, wherein you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you, being dead through your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, you, I say, did he make alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses; having blotted out the bond written in ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us: AND HE HAS TAKEN IT OUT OF THE WAY, NAILING IT TO THE CROSS; having despoiled the principalities and the powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of a feast day or a new moon or a sabbath day" [Colossians 2:12-15]. I know of no way anyone could say any clearer that the Law of Moses was blotted out and nailed to the cross AT THE DEATH OF CHRIST, not in A. D. 70. This was written by Paul when he was in prison at Rome, about A. D 62, was before Realized Eschatology says the Old Covenant Law ended. They tell us that there was an over lapping of the two, and the Old Covenant did not end unto A. D. 70. Dawson used "the abomination of desolation" [Matthew 14:15; Daniel 9:27] to prove the resurrection took place in A. D. 70. Christ came in judgment on Israel at that time just as He did in judgment on nations in the Old Testament. On Israel [Zephaniah 1:14-18]. On the Nations [Joel 3:16-16]. On Egypt [Ezekiel 30:3-4; 32:7-8; Isaiah 19:1]. On Babylon [Isaiah 13:10-20]. On Edom [Isaiah 34:4-6]. On Arier in Israel [Isaiah 29:5-6]. Israel was destroyed in the Jewish war with Rome which last for years and ended in A. D. 70. JUDGMENT DID COME ON ISRAEL IN THAT GENERATION [Matthew 23:36], AND ISRAEL WAS DESTROYED IN THIS JUDGMENT, BUT THERE IS NOT ONE THING SAID ABOUT THE RESURRECTION OF ANYONE OR ANY NATION; NOTHING IS SAID ABOUT THE RESURRECTION OF THE OLD TESTAMENT SAINTS WHEN THE NATION WAS DESTROYED. A resurrection in A. D. 70, the only resurrection there will ever be had to have been at that time for realized Eschatology to be true; it is based entirely on a resurrection that is not in the Bible.

 "The Galatian letter is an indignant protest against and refutation of Judaizing teachers" B. W. Johnson, The People's New testament With Notes, Volume 2, Page 163. Speaking to Jews [Galatians 2:14-15] Paul said, "Even we believed on Christ Jesus, that we might be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law: because by the works of the law" and "You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you are fallen away from grace" [Galatians 2:16 and 5:4]. This was written in about A. D. 57 when the law would have been in effect, and keeping the law would have justified if there had been an over lapping of the two unto A. D. 70.

 Sam and I have been in communication with each other a few times by e-mail, and I have thought of him as being a friend that I have not seen in person; I think the things he had written in the past are among the best books I have. He says on page 2, "I'm certainly not disparaging Robert, as he's only saying what most of us tacitly believe, that the subject of the resurrection is predominantly (or even exclusively) a New Testament subject. I believed the same thing until 2005 myself." My prayer is that he will see that Realized Eschatology is not the truth before it is too late.

 THE RESURRECTION ON THE LAST DAY

 THE DAY OF THE LORD

 All this in one day, the day Christ comes. The day of the Lord.

 The second coming of Christ [2 Peter 3:10].

 The resurrection and judgment of the righteous [Acts 24:15; John 5:28-29; 6:40-41].

 The resurrection and judgment of the wicked [John 12:48].

 The final judgment [Acts 17:31; 2 Thessalonians 1:6-10].

 The total destruction of the earth and the heavens that were made from nothing and will return to nothing [2 Peter 3:7-11].

 The total destruction of the lost [2 Peter 2:12; 3:7].

 The second death [Revelation 2:11].

 Death will be abolished [1 Corinthians 15:24-16].

 The saved forever with the Lord [1 Thessalonians 4:14-17].

 The kingdom will be delivered up to God [1 Corinthians 15:24-26].

 Christ will bring the lawless one to an end by the appearance of His coming [2 Thessalonians 2:1-9].

 "Wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God" [2 Thessalonians 1:7-10].

 [1] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST

 "But the day of the Lord will come as a thief" [2 Peter 3:10]. No one knows when the "day of the Lord" will come, but when it comes, EVERYONE on earth, living or dead, will know it. Coming "as a thief" shows the unexpectedness of His coming; no one knows what day or year. No one will be resurrected before the day of the Lord comes, all will be resurrected when it comes.

 [2] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE RESURRECTION AND JUDGMENT OF THE RIGHTEOUS IN THE LAST DAY

 "There shall be a resurrection both of the just and unjust" [Acts 24:15]. Both the righteous and the wicked will be raised and judged at the same time on the same day, not a thousand years apart.

 "Marvel not at this; for the hour comes in which all that are in the tombs shall hear his voice, and shall come forth; they that have done good unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of judgment" [John 5:28-29]. All will be raised in the same "hour." Not the saved raised and then the lost raised a thousand years later.

 "And this is the will of him that sent me, that of all that which he has given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone that beholds the Son, and believes on him, should have eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day" [John 6:40-41]. Not a thousand years before the last day.

 [3] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE RESURRECTION AND JUDGMENT OF THE WICKED IN THE LAST DAY

 "He that rejects me, and receives not my sayings, has one that judges him: the word that I speak, the same shall judge him in the last day" [John 12:48].

 [4] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE FINAL JUDGMENT.

 Millennialists must divide the judgment into two parts. If it is shown that the judgment of both those in Christ and those who are not in Christ is one judgment of both at the same time and on the same day, not separated by a thousand years, it makes their view not be possible. In the passages above the judgment, it is not a broken judgment with the two parts a thousand years apart.

 "He has appointed a day in which he will judge the world" [Acts 17:31].

 "If so be that it is a righteous thing with God to recompense affliction to them that afflict you, and to you that are afflicted rest with us, AT THE REVELATION OF THE LORD JESUS FROM HEAVEN with the angels of his power in flaming fire, RENDERING VENGEANCE TO THEM THAT KNOW NOT GOD, AND TO THEM THAT OBEY NOT THE GOSPEL OF OUR LORD JESUS WHO SHALL SUFFER PUNISHMENT, EVEN ETERNAL DESTRUCTION from the face of the Lord and from the glory of his might, WHEN HE SHALL COME TO BE GLORIFIED IN HIS SAINTS, and marveled at in all them that believe (because our testimony unto you was believed) IN THAT DAY" [2 Thessalonians 1:6-10].

 This passage tells:

 WHAT is to be done to both

 Them that know not God, "Shall suffer punishment, even eternal destruction."

 His saints: "Counted worthy of the kingdom of God" Verse 5.

 WHEN it is to be done to both

 "At the revelation of the Lord Jesus from Heaven...WHEN HE SHALL COME TO BE GLORIFIED IN HIS SAINTS...IN THAT DAY"

 There is no way this passage can be broken apart and made to be speaking to things that will be a thousand years apart. It is speaking of what will happen to both "in that day," not a thousand years apart. If all the Bible is to be taken literally as the Millennialists say it is, could any passage say any clearer then this one that the resurrection and judgment are simultaneously on the same day?

 "Do not marvel at this; for THE HOUR IS COMING, IN WHICH ALL WHO ARE IN THE TOMBS SHALL HEAR HIS VOICE AND SHALL COME FORTH; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of judgment" [John 5:28-29].

 "But after your hardness and unrepentant heart treasures up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God; who will render to every man according to his works: to them that by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and incorruption, eternal life: but unto them that are factious, and obey not the truth, but obey unrighteousness, shall be wrath and indignation, tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that works evil" [Romans 2:5-6]. This will be "in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my gospel, by Jesus Christ" [Romans 2:16].

 "For we shall all stand before the judgment-seat of God" [Romans 14:10].

 "For we must all be made manifest before the judgment-seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he had done, whether it be good or bad" [2 Corinthians 5:10].

 The Premillennialists time table has the judgment a thousand years after the day of the Lord.

 Also Matthew 25:46; Hebrews 10:27; Romans 14:10; 2:5-16; 1 Thessalonians 5:2-3; 2 Peter 2:12; 3:7-11; 2:10; Revelation 2:11; 21:8

 [5] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE TOTAL DESTRUCTION OF THE EARTH AND THE HEAVENS WHICH WERE MADE FROM NOTHING AND WILL RETURN TO NOTHING. "Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away" [Matthew 24:35; Psalms 102:25-27].

 "By which means the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished, but the day of the Lord will come as a thief: in which the heavens that now are, and the earth, by the same word have been stored up for fire, being reserved against the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men...But the day of the Lord will come as a thief; IN THE WHICH THE HEAVENS SHALL PASS AWAY WITH A GREAT NOISE, AND THE ELEMENTS SHALL BE DISSOLVED WITH FERVENT HEAT (The elements are all the things of which the earth is made, the air, the water, etc. These shall be dissolved, burned up), AND THE EARTH AND WORKS THAT ARE THEREIN SHALL BE BURNED UP. SEEING THAT THESE THINGS ARE THUS ALL TO BE DISSOLVED" [2 Peter 3:7-11].

 "The heavens SHALL PASS AWAY with a great noise, and the elements SHALL MELT with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing than that all these things shall be dissolved" King James Version.

 "The heavens SHALL PASS AWAY with a great noise, and the elements shall be dissolved with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are therein shall BE BURNED UP. Seeing that these things are thus, all TO BE DISSOLVED" American Standard Version.

 "The heavens WILL PASS AWAY with a roar, and the elements will BE DESTROYED with intense heat, and the earth and its works will be burned up. Since all these things Are TO BE DESTROYED in this way" New American Standard Version.

 "And then the heavens WILL PASS AWAY with a loud noise, AND THE ELEMENTS WILL BE DISSOLVED with fire, and the earth and everything that is done on it. WILL BE DISSOLVED. Since all these things Are TO BE DISSOLVED in this way" New Revised Standard Version.

 "THE HEAVENS WILL DISAPPEAR with a roar; THE ELEMENTS WILL BE DESTROYED by fire, and the earth and everything in it WILL BE LAIN BARE" New International Version.

 "The heavens WILL PASS AWAY with a terrible noise and the heavenly bodies WILL DISAPPEAR in fire, and the earth and everything on it will BE BURNED UP. And so since EVERYTHING AROUND US IS GOING TO MELT AWAY" The Living Bible.

 "The skies WILL DISAPPEAR with a loud noise, everything in them will BE DESTROYED by fire, and the earth and everything in it will BE BURNED UP. In that way everything WILL BE DESTROYED" New Century Version.

 "In that day the heavens WILL VANISH in a tearing blast, the very elements WILL DISINTEGRATE in heat and the earth and all its works WILL DISAPPEAR. In view of the fact that all these things are to BE DISSOLVED" J. B. Phillips.

 If this passage does not say the heavens (the sky) and the earth shall pass away, all be dissolved, be burned up, will disappear, disintegrate, there is no way God could have said the heavens (the sky) and the earth will not be after the day of the Lord? THERE IS NO WAY TO READ THE EARTH WILL BE RESTORED TO BE THE WAY IT WAS BEFORE ADAM SINNED IN THIS PASSAGE. "DISAPPEAR" "MELT AWAY" "VANISH" "BE DESTROYED" "BE DISSOLVED" "PASS AWAY" "BURNED UP" DOES NOT MEAN "BE RESTORED." According to Premillennialists this cannot be at the coming of Christ for there is to be a thousand years of the Millennium after His coming.

 If the second coming of Christ is passed and all end time prophecy has been fulfilled as Realized Eschatology teaches then life will go on forever on the earth as it is now for nothing is said about the earth ending.

 The fire is just a literal as the water; if one is figurative language the other must be. "By which means [water] the world that them was...perished; but the heavens that now are, and the earth, by the same word have been stored up for fire." If the "fire" is spiritualized to be something other than real fire then the "water" must also be spiritualized to be something other than real water; therefore, the story of the ark must be figurative language also.

 Figurative language of the sun, moon and stars being darken or falling from heaven is used of the fall of Judea [a national judgment] in Jeremiah 4:1-28, and "The sun shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken" [Matthew 24:29]. Compare Matthew 24:29-30 to the fall of Egypt. "And when I extinguish you, I will cover the heavens, and darken their stars; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give its light. All the shining lights in the heavens I will darken over you and will set darkness on your land, declares the Lord God. I will also trouble the hearts of many peoples, when I bring your destruction among the nations" [Ezekiel 32:7-9]. However, Peter speaks of the utter destruction, passing away, disappearing, disintegrating, being dissolved of "the elements" on the day of the Lord; not just being darken and not giving their light. He is not using figurative language of the passing of a nation, but giving a literal description of the earth and the heavens passing away in one day.

 Whichever way you make this [1] a figurative description, a figurative description of the end of a nation. [2] Or a literal description, as a literal description of the end of the heavens and earth in the day of the Lord, it is a description of the end of something, not the restoring and making something better. The earth being restored is not in this passage; in it the earth is destroyed, not restored. THERE IS NOT A WORD ABOUT THE EARTH, OR ANYTHING BEING RESTORED AND MADE BETTER IN 2 PETER 3.

 "You, Lord, in the beginning did lay the foundation of THE EARTH, AND THE HEAVENS are the works of your hands: THEY SHALL PERISH; BUT YOU CONTINUES: and they all shall wax old as does a garment; and as a mantle shall you roil them up, as a garment, and they shall be changed; but you are the same, and your years will not come to an end" [Hebrews 1:10-12]. There is no way the writer of Hebrews could have said any stronger that the Earth will end but Jesus will have no end.

 Millennialists say no the earth will not end "on the day of the Lord," for after the day of the Lord there must be the seven years, then the thousand years, then the "little season." Even then many other Millennialists say no the earth will not end, but Christ will rule on it forever and the saved will live on the earth forever, not in Heaven.

 [6] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE TOTAL DESTRUCTION OF THE LOST [2 Peter 2:12; 3:7].

 "For yourselves know perfectly THAT THE DAY OF THE LORD so comes as a thief in the night. When they are saying, peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them...But you, brethren, are not in darkness, that THAT DAY should overtake you as a thief; for you are all sons of light" [1 Thessalonians 5:2-3, See 2 Peter 3:10]. Both are on the same day.

 "At the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with the angels of his power in flaming fire, rendering vengeance to then that know not God and to them that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus; who shall suffer punishment, even eternal destruction from the face of the Lord and from the glory of his might, when he shall come to be glorified in the saints" [2 Thessalonians 1:7-10]. There is no thousand year gap between the coming of Christ and the destruction of the wicked. Both are "in the day of the Lord."

 "BUT WHEN THE SON OF MAN SHALL COME IN HIS GLORY, AND ALL THE ANGELS WITH HIM...HE SHALL SEPARATE THEM ONE FROM ANOTHER, AS THE SHEPHERD SEPARATES THE SHEEP FROM THE GOATS...AND THESE [the goats] SHALL GO AWAY INTO ETERNAL PUNISHMENT: BUT THE RIGHTEOUS [the sheep] INTO ETERNAL LIFE" [Matthew 25:46]. NO THOUSAND YEARS BETWEEN THE GOATS AND THE SHEEP. BOTH ARE AT THE SAME TIME. BOTH ARE, "WHEN THE SON OF MAN SHALL COME IN HIS GLORY." PREMILLENNIALISTS CANNOT EXPLAIN AWAY THIS PASSAGE AND MANY OTHERS THAT DO NOT FIT WITH THEIR VIEW.

 [7] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE SECOND DEATH - used four times only in Revelation. Another way of saying the total destruction of the lost. [See The Second Death in chapter two].

 Those who are buried and raised with Christ [Romans 6] in the first resurrection, "Over these the second death has no power" [Revelation 20:6].

 Death and hades, and any not found written in the book of life are cast into the lake of fire; which is the second death. [Revelation 20:14-15].

 Lake of fire, which is the second death. He that overcomes shall inherit and be God's son. For all other, "Their part shall be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone; which is the second death" [Revelation 21:8].

 FIRST RESURRECTION - SECOND DEATH: "He that over comes shall not be hurt of the second death" [Revelation 2:11, 20:6]. The first resurrection is when a person is "born anew...born of the water and the Spirit" [John 3:3-5]. "And you did he make ALIVE when you were dead...made us ALIVE together with Christ [by grace have you been saved], and RAISED us up with him" [Ephesians 2:1-6; Galatians 2:18-19; 3:1]. The first resurrection is when, "We were buried therefore with him through baptism into death: that like as Christ was RAISED from the dead" [Romans 6:3-4]. "There are only two alternatives, the crown of life--eternal life--or the second death." Homer Hailey, Page 128, Revelation, Baker Book House.

 If, as some teach, the first resurrection is the resurrection of the soul in paradise where the soul lives with Christ, then the first resurrection takes place at death and paradise would be in hades. They believe both the good and bad wake up in hades at death, therefore, all, both the saved and the lost, take part in the first resurrection. All that are raised in the first resurrection will not have a part in the second death. This is more then they want to teach, but they try to get around it by making hades have a good and a bad side.

 All will die. "It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this comes judgment" [Hebrews 9:27]. All that are in the grave, both saved and lost, will hear His voice and come forth at the resurrection. All will be raised for judgment. All who are born again, made alive by being raised with Christ through Baptism; and live faithful shall not be hurt of the second death after the judgment. Christ paid the wages of sin for them. All others will pay their own wages of sin, which is death [Romans 6:23]. "But the fearful, and unbelieving, and abominable, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, their part shall be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone; WHICH IS THE SECOND DEATH" [Revelation 21:8]. From this death there will never be a resurrection. The results will be eternal. The Dark Age doctrine of an endless life of torment is not a second death. It is eternal life with torment. IT BEARS NO RESEMBLANCE TO A DEATH. To feel pain, those in Hell would have to be just as alive as those in Heaven are. Eternal death is not life.

 "As there is a second higher life, so there is also a second and deeper death. And as after that life there is no more death, SO AFTER THAT DEATH THERE IS NO MORE LIFE" Afford, quoted by Homer Hailey in "Revelation." The resurrection of all at the coming of Christ makes death be a sleep from which all will awake, but there will be no resurrection from the second death. It will be permanent and everlasting.

 There is no room in "the day of the Lord" for one resurrection of a few when He comes and another resurrection of most of mankind after a thousand years as is taught by many.

 "To him that overcomes, to him will I give to eat of the tree of life...He that overcomes shall not be hurt of the second death...He that overcome shall be arrayed in white garments; and I will in no wise blot his name out of the book of life" [Revelation 2:7-3:5]. The first resurrection is when one is born again. These are the only ones that will not be hurt of the second death. The overcoming is in this lifetime, not as the Premillennialists teach that the first resurrection will be at the coming of Christ.

 [8] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - DEATH WILL BE ABOLISHED "Then comes the end, when he shall deliver up the kingdom to God, even the father; when he shall have abolished all rule and all authority and power, for he MUST REIGN, till he has put all his enemies under his feet. THE LAST ENEMY THAT SHALL BE ABOLISHED IS DEATH" [1 Corinthians 15:24-16]. For all that overcomes and "shall not be hurt of the second death" [Revelation 2:7] there will be no more death. Many Premillennialists believe Christ is not now reigning and will not reign unto the thousand years when He will reign on the throne of David in Jerusalem, at which time many of them believe all the saved will be in Heaven and will not return to earth unto after the thousand years. Is there anyway that death being abolished in the day of the Lord not be a problem for them?

 [9] THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE SAVED FOREVER WITH THE LORD.

 "For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also that are fallen asleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we that are alive, that are left unto the coming of the Lord, shall in no wise precede them that are fallen asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven, with a shout, the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first; then we that are alive, that are left, shall together with them be caught up in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord" [1 Thessalonians 4:14-17].

 "When the Lord shall be revealed from heaven...when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be marveled at in all them that believed...in that day" [2 Thessalonians 1:7-10]. Both the "shall be punished" and "to be marveled at in all them that believed" are "when the Lord shall be revealed from heaven...in that day," not two difference days that are a thousand years apart.

 [10] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - THE KINGDOM WILL BE DELIVERED UP TO GOD. "Christ the first fruits, after that those who are Christ's AT HIS COMING, THEN COMES THE END, WHEN HE DELIVERS UP THE KINGDOM TO THE GOD AND FATHER, when he has abolished all rule and all authority and power. For HE MUST REIGN until He has put all His enemies under His feet. The last enemy that will be abolished is death" [1 Corinthians 15:24-26].

 When the Kingdom was established-- or-- When the Kingdom will be established has been made by Premillennialists into a key question as to where the saved will spend eternity.

 The Kingdom has been established and will be delivered up to God in the day of the Lord-- or-- The Kingdom will be established on earth after the day of the Lord.

 Will we have a "spiritual body" in Heaven with Christ-- or-- Will we have an earthly body on earth and Christ also an earthly body and rule the earth from Jerusalem for eternity?

 [11] ON THE DAY OF THE LORD - CHRIST WILL BRING THE LAWLESS ONE TO AN END BY THE APPEARANCE OF HIS COMING. "Now we beseech you, brethren, touching the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ...as that the day of the Lord is just at hand...for it will not be, except the falling away come first, and the man of lawlessness be revealed, the son of destruction...And then shall be revealed the lawless one, whom the Lord Jesus shall slay with the breath of his mouth, and bring to nothing by the manifestation of his coming; even he, whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power" [2 Thessalonians 2:1-9]. Who or whatever the lawless one is; he will end on the day of the Lord. Some Premillennialists believe the lawless one to be the "Antichrist." If they were right, CHRIST WILL BRING TO AN END ON THE DAY OF THE LORD, ON THE DAY OF HIS SECOND COMING, NOT A THOUSAND YEARS AFTER THE DAY OF THE LORD. Some believe him to be the pope. If so, Christ will bring him to and end THAT DAY. Whatever "the lawless one" is, Christ will bring him or it to and end ON THE DAY He comes. If "the lawless one" is the "Antichrist" as many Premillennialists believe, the "Antichrist" will come to an end on the day of the second coming of Christ. WHAT EVER OR WHO EVER THE LAWLESS ONE IS, CHRIST WILL BRING IT TO AN END ON THE DAY OF HIS COMING. IT OR HE WILL NOT EXIST FOR A THOUSAND YEARS AFTER THE COMING OF CHRIST. IF THERE WERE A MILLENNIUM, THE LAWLESS ONE COULD NOT BE IN IT.

 [12] ON THE DAY OF JUDGMENT - WRATH OF GOD. A day of wrath, not seven years or a thousand years of wrath. "And to you that are afflicted rest with us, AT THE REVELATION OF THE LORD JESUS FORM HEAVEN with the angels of His power in flaming fire, RENDERING VENGEANCE TO THEM THAT KNOW NOT GOD, AND TO THEM THAT OBEY NOT THE GOSPEL OF OUR LORD JESUS; WHO SHALL SUFFER PUNISHMENT EVEN ETERNAL DESTRUCTION from the face of the Lord and from the glory of His might, WHEN HE SHALL COME TO BE GLORIFIED IN HIS SAINTS, and to be marveled at in all them that believe...IN THAT DAY" [2 Thessalonians 1:7-10]. "Eternal destruction" for the lost is "in that day," is the same day "when he shall come to be marveled at by them that believed."

 "Wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God...but unto them that are factious, and obey not the truth, but obey unrighteousness, shall be wrath and indignation, tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that worked evil...in the day when God shall judge the secrets of man" [Romans 2:5-16 American Standard Version].

 "For if we sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and a fierceness of fire which shall devour the adversaries. A man that has set at naught Moses law died without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses: of how much sorer punishment, think you, shall he be judged worthy, who has trodden underfoot the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified and unholy thing, and has done despite unto the Spirit of grace? For we know him that said, vengeance belongs unto me, I will recompense, and again, The Lord shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God" [Hebrews 10:26-31].

 "And inasmuch as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this comes judgment" [Hebrews 9:27].

 "But I would not have you ignorant, brethren, concerning them that fall asleep; that you sorrow not, even as the rest, who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also that are fallen asleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we that are alive, that are left unto the coming of the Lord, shall in no will precede them that are fallen asleep, For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven, and with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God; and the dead in Christ shall rise first; then we that are alive, that are left, shall together with them be caught up in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air; and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. But concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that anything be written unto you. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night. When they are saying, Peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes open them, as travail upon a woman with child: and they shall in no wise escape. But you brethren, are not in darkness, that day should overtake you as a thief" [1 Thessalonians 4:13-5:5].

 IN THIS PASSAGE THE DAY OF THE LORD IS CALLED:

 The day of the Lord coming

 The day the living saints being caught up (called "rapture" by many),

 The day of the resurrection of those that are fallen asleep,

 The day the judgment all take place

 The day of the Lord

 The day when "the Lord himself shall descend from Heaven"

 "Where is the promise of His coming...But the heavens that now are, and the earth, by the same word have been stored up for fire, being reserved against the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men...But the day of the Lord will come as a thief: in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall be dissolved with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are therein shall be burned up" [2 Peter 3:4-13].

 All on the same day. There is no thousand years [365,000 days] or seven years after any of the above. They are all on "that day." "Inasmuch as he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained" [Acts 17:31]. Those who believe and teach Premillennial doctrines must deny the clear teaching on the Bible on the day of the Lord.

 -------------------------------------------------------------

 

 PART TWO: 1 Thessalonians 4:13-17

 THE RESURRECTION -- versus -- THE RAPTURE

 WILL THERE BE AN INVISIBLE RETURN OF CHRIST?

 WILL THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST BE PREMILLENNIAL

 OR THE RESURRECTION OF ALL THE DEAD?

 According to Millennialists, 1 Thessalonians 4:13-17 is a pivotal passage to support the rapture. When does it say the events spoken of will take place, on the "last day" or thousand years before the "last day"?

 The judgment of both the saved and the lost will be in the same day, "The day of the Lord." "Behold, he comes with the clouds; and EVERY EYE SHALL SEE HIM, and they that pierced him" [Revelation 1:7], but in this passage in Thessalonians Paul is speaking only of those who are in Christ, those who are asleep in Christ and those who are alive when He returns. "For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven, with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and the trump of God; and the dead in Christ shall rise first; then we that are alive that are left, shall together with then be caught up in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord (not seven years)" [1 Thessalonians 4:16-17]. THERE WILL BE NOTHING "SECRET" ABOUT THE COMING OF CHRIST WITH A SHOUT, THE VOICE OF THE ARCHANGEL, AND THE TRUMP OF GOD. No secret coming for the saved that the world will not know about. The Millennium view that there will be a thousand years between the rapture and the destruction of the wicked is not found in the Bible.

 Those in Christ who were dead and had to be resurrected from the dead.

 And those in Christ who will be alive at the coming of Christ and will not need a resurrection but will be changed.

 BOTH "SHALL TOGETHER" (Both at the same time) BE CAUGHT UP. "And so shall we ever be with the Lord." (Not be with Him for seven years). Nothing is said about a secret rapture. Nothing is said about Christ ever returning to earth or those who are caught up returning to earth." The word "rapture" is not in the Bible but Premillennialists take it from "caught up" in 1 Thessalonians 4:17. There is not one word about an invisible coming of Christ. The passage says, "For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we that are alive, that are left unto the coming of the Lord, shall in no wise precede them that are fallen asleep. FOR THE LORD HIMSELF SHALL DESCEND FROM HEAVEN, WITH A SHOUT, WITH THE VOICE OF THE ARCHANGEL, AND WITH THE TRUMP OF GOD: and the dead in Christ shall rise first; then we that are alive, that are left, shall together with them be caught up in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air; AND SO SHALL WE EVER BE WITH THE LORD" [1 Thessalonians 4:15-18]. The passage that is most use to teach an "invisible" seven year rapture says the coming of Christ will be anything but invisible. Paul goes on to say that when the Lord does come ("the day of the Lord") there will be "sudden destruction" and they (those not in Christ) "shall in no wise escape" [1 Thessalonians 5:2]. (See chapter 7: The day of the Lord). A "Secret resurrection" and "invisible coming" that are continually used by Millennialists are man-made phrases and not only are they not in the Bible, but they are contradictory to it. No one will be resurrected before the "day of the Lord," when all, both saved and lost will be resurrected or changed on the on the same day, "the day of the Lord." No one knows when "the day of the Lord" will come, but when it comes, EVERYONE will know it.

 The Lords coming will be:

 "With a shout"

 "With the voice of the archangel"

 "And the trump of God"

 "Behold, he comes with the clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they that pierced him" [Revelation 1:7] Nothing secret about His coming. They that pierced Him [John 19:34-37] shall see Him along with all others, "Every eye shall see him," not just a few.

 At His coming:

 "Inasmuch as he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained" [Acts 17:31].

 All the lost will be resurrected with those "that pierced him" [Revelation 1:7].

 "For yourselves know perfectly THAT THE DAY OF THE LORD so comes as a thief in the night. When they are saying, peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them...But you, brethren, are not in darkness, the THAT DAY should overtake you as a thief; for you are all sons of light" [1 Thessalonians 5:2-3, See 2 Peter 3:6-13].

 "At the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with the angels of his power in flaming fire, rendering vengeance to then that know not God and to them that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus; who shall suffer punishment, even eternal destruction from the face of the Lord and from the glory of his might, to be glorified in the saints" [2 Thessalonians 1:7-10]. There is no thousand year gap between the coming of Christ and the destruction of the wicked. Both His coming and their destruction will be "WHEN he shall come." Both will be on the same day "THAT DAY."

 All the saved will be resurrected at the last day, not a thousand years before the last day.

 "And this is the will of him that sent me, that of all that which he has given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day" [John 6:39].

 "I will raise him up at the last day" [John 6:40].

 "I will raise him up at the last day" [John 6:44].

 "I will raise him up at the last day" [John 6:54].

 THE RESURRECTION THAT IS TAUGHT IN THE NEW TESTAMENT AND THE RAPTURE AS TAUGHT BY SOME TODAY CANNOT BOTH BE POSSIBLE. IT MUST BE ONE OR THE OTHER.

 PART THREE: REVELATION 2O, THE THOUSAND YEARS

 IS THE WHOLE BIBLE TO BE TAKEN LITERALLY OR PART FIGURATIVELY?

 Premillennialists make the claim that they are the only ones who really believe the Bible for they are the only ones who take all the Bible literally, and when anyone believes some parts of the Bible are figuratively they are explaining the Bible away.

 DO PREMILLENNIALISTS TAKE ALL THE BIBLE TO BE LITERAL? READ THEIR BOOKS. THEY MAKE:

 Scenes with bows, arrows and horses are changed to battles with airplanes, a bombs, tanks and helicopters.

 The mark of the beast is not a literal mark but a computer chip or bar code.

 In Revelation 9 the locusts that come out of the bottomless pit are not literal locusts but are an attack by helicopters.

 Apocalyptic literature must be interpreted figuratively. Premillennialists must force all other scriptures to fit with their literal interpretation of Revelation 20.

 If taken literally, the kingdom of Heaven will be limited to 144,000 [Revelation 14:1].

 All will be males [Revelation 14:4].

 All will be virgins [Revelation 14:4].

 Only those who never told a lie [Revelation 14:5].

 All will be Jews, 12 thousand from each of the 12 tribes [Revelation 7:4-8]. They ignore the fact that of the 12 tribes, 10 tribes had completely disappeared long before the New Testament and long before John wrote this.

 Some Millennialists believe only this 144,000 Jews will be in Heaven and they will help Jesus rule the world from Heaven. Would that not make this 144,000 Jews into some kind of gods? Abraham, Isaac and Jacob lived and died before the 12 tribes, therefore, they could not be in the 144,000, but Christ says they will be in the kingdom of Heaven [Matthew 8:11]. After saying 144,000 "were sealed" by the four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, John saw "a great multitude, which no man could number...standing before the throne" [Revelation 7:9]. If this were made literal, the 144,000 would be on earth and the great multitude in Heaven, just opposite of Millennial teaching.

 A few of the many symbols that not even most Millennialists make literal even thought they say ALL of the Bible is to be taken literally.

 Revelation 1,3: The letters to the seven churches contain many symbols; seven golden candlesticks and many more symbols.

 Revelation 1:12-16: Is this a literal image of Christ? Most will say no.

 His head and hair as white as snow

 His eyes as a flame of fire

 His feet like burnished bass refined in a furnace

 His voice as the voice of many waters

 His right hand is big enough to hold seven stars

 Out of His mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword

 His countenance as the sun

 Is this a literal deception of what Christ looks like now and will look like in the Millennium? If it were His right hand would be many times larger than the earth. 

 Chapter 6

 : Will literal horses come out of Heaven and will literal stars fall upon the earth? 

 Chapter 7

 : Will Angels literally be holding back the four winds on the four corners of a round earth that does not have corners? 

 Chapter 8

 : Will Angels literally cast a literal mountain, which is burning with fire into the sea? 

 Chapter 9

 : Will literal locusts shaped like horses with the face of a man, the hair of a woman, the teeth as a lion, with breastplates of iron come upon the earth? Why do millennialists who say the whole Bible must be taken literally say in some of their books, no these locusts are not literal locusts but are attack helicopters used by Satan when he attacks Christ in the millennium? 

 Chapter 10

 : Did John literally eat a book? 

 Chapter 11

 : Are God's two witnesses that are to prophesy in sackcloth literally two olive trees and two candlesticks? 

 Chapter 12

 : Will a literal pregnant woman be clothe with the sun, have the moon under her feet, and have twelve stars upon her head? Will she literally fly into the wilderness with the wings of an eagle? Will there be a red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and will this dragon be so large that it's tail will literally cast a third of the stars of heaven on the earth? 

 Chapter 13

 : Will a literal beast come out of the sea with ten horns and seven heads? Will any not be able to buy or sell without a mark on their foreheads?

 Revelation 13:18 - 666 "It is the number of a man." The Hebrew alphabet has a numerical value for each letter just as the Greek alphabet did. The Greeks had a custom of giving a person a number, which was the total of all the letters of his name. The Hebrew spelling of Nero is Nrwn Qsr, which totals to 666, therefore 666 would be his number. He was the Emperor of Rome, was known for his cruelty and was responsible for much of persecution of Christians, which continued long after his death. At the time John was writing Revelations, the persecution of Christians by the Jews has stopped due to the destruction of Israel, but Christians were being persecuted by Nero, the Emperor of Rome. By using the Hebrew spelling, the Romans would not understand what was being said but the Hebrew Christians would. 

 Chapter 14

 : Did Babylon literally make all nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication?

 Revelation 15: Will seven angels literally come out of heaven with seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God?

 Revelation 16: Will the seven angels literally pour out their seven bowls of wrath on the earth? Will every mountain and island of the earth not be found?

 Revelation 17: Will there literally be a woman sitting upon a scarlet-colored beast with seven heads and ten horns? Will she literally be drunken with the blood of the saints?

 Revelation 18: Will she literally be judged in one day, and the merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her and trade with her no more?

 Revelation 19: Will a great harlot have corrupted the earth with her fornication? Will armies literally follow Christ out of Heaven riding on literal horses? Are there literally horses in Heaven?

 Revelation 20: In order to make this chapter be literal, most Premillennialists say all the Book or Revelation is literal.

 Revelation 19 and 20: A serious problem with the Premillennialists literal teaching. They believe all the nations of the earth will gather in the Middle East for a literal battle with guns, airplanes, tanks, etc.

 If Revelation 19 were taken literally as Premillennialists say it should be, there would be no nations for Christ to rule over in chapter 20.

 If literal, only those who were literally beheaded would be in the Millennium; only those who were literally beheaded would be in the first resurrection, which Millennium says is the first coming of Christ at the rapture. If literal, the "they" (a third person pronoun - those who were beheaded) could not be changed to "we," whether "the rest of the dead" were Jew or Gentile, therefore, "The rest of the dead" could not be in the rapture or the Millennium. If literal, "The rest of the dead" that lived not until the thousand years was finished [Revelation 20:5] would include all Christians and Jews (Israel) who had not been beheaded.

 "They lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years." If the thousand years were a literal thousand years, their living and reigning would be only for a thousand years and would end at the end of the thousand years.

 It is "he that has part in the first resurrection" that reign with Christ a thousand years, it is not speaking of the Jewish nation after His second coming.

 The resurrected Christ with his immortal saints, according to their teaching, could not be killed. The idea that Christ, who has all power and authority in heaven and earth, who is God and the maker of this earth, could be threatened by earthly nations is totally ridiculous. For many Premillennialists this may be no real problem, as they believe Christ did not exist before His birth and that He is not God, just a highly glorified man, but for some Premillennialists who believe in the preexistence and deity of Christ and most other Christians this would be a problem.

 After the saints have been raised immortal at His coming [1 Thessalonians 4:16-17; 1 Corinthians 15:42-49] raptured to Heaven for seven years, return to earth and reigning with Christ for a thousand years, some of the Millennialists have God saving immortal saints that cannot die that are in Jerusalem by sending fire from Heaven. This they get from Revelation 20:9. Saving the resurrected immortal saints that have been in Heaven for seven years and with Christ on earth for thousand years, from what? If they are immortal they cannot die. No earthly nations could kill them. No earthly nations could defeat Christ whom they teach the resurrected saints were with; no armies of locusts, which they say are helicopters, could harm the ones who would be with Christ, but, Hal Lindsey needed a story.

 Things that are not mentioned in Revelation 20 but are added to it by Millennialists.

 Israel or Jerusalem are not mentioned in Revelation 20.

 An earthly kingdom is not mentioned.

 There is nothing said about the throne of David.

 A literal throne on the earth is not mentioned.

 Return of Jews to Jerusalem not mentioned.

 Resurrection of the earthly body not mentioned.

 Christ being on earth not mentioned.

 Nothing is said about "the souls of them that had been beheaded" being on earth.

 The second coming of Christ is not mentioned in Revelation 20.

 Jesus reigning on the earth is not mentioned.

 Nothing is said about a seven year rapture of the saints to Heaven.

 Nothing is said about an unparalleled tribulation on the earth.

 Not for three and a half years.

 Not for seven years.

 Not for any number of years.

 Nothing is said about a utopia on this earth in the thousand years or for eternally after the thousand years.

 In Revelation 7 nothing is said about the 144,000 that "were sealed" by the four angels that were "standing at the four corners of the earth" being "in Heaven." In Revelation 14 they are seen with the Lamb when He was "standing on the mount Zion," not in Heaven.

 "And when the thousand years are finished" [Revelation 20:7] nothing is said about a resurrection of the wicked at the end of the thousand years. "Satan shall be loosed out of his prison, and shall come forth to deceive the nations...to gather them (the nations) together to the war...and they (the nations) went up over the breath of the earth" but nothing about a resurrection of all the wicked although many Millennialists use this passage to teach they will be resurrected at the end of the Millennium and the resurrected dead will be used by Satan to make war on Christ in Jerusalem and almost overcome Him. Nothing is said anywhere in the Bible about the wicked being resurrected to live a second time on this earth.

 It does not mention the "Antichrist" or "the man of sin."

 It does not mention one thing Millennialists continually use this chapter to teach. Even though none of the above are mentioned in Revelation 20 Millennialists consistently say it teaches all of them. "I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if anyone adds to them, God shall add to him the plagues which are written in this book" [Revelation 22:18].

 "If millenarians are correct in their view, then their millennium ends in total disaster. All Satan has to do is make an appearance, and the nations...rally around him in great numbers from the four corners of the earth, ready to come up against 'the camp of the saints' and their beloved city." Homer Hailey, Revelation An Introduction and Commentary, Page 397, 1979, Baker Book House.

 Revelation is a vision of "the things, which must shortly come to pass" [Revelation 1:1]. The events of Revelation 20:1-10 are a description of things that were to come to pass soon. John was writing to the Christians about their being persecuted by Rome. If he had told them that Rome was soon to be judged by God in a way that the Romans could understand what he said, it would have brought more persecution from Rome. The Christians knew the Old Testament and would understand that when he was speaking of Babylon being destroyed that he was speaking of Rome being destroyed, that God was in control and knew of their being persecuted. The Romans would not have understood what John was saying. To interpret this book as being about things today, as the Millennialists do, would have had no meaning to the Christians of John's time. "And he sent and signified ("to show by signs") it by his angel unto his servant John" [Revelation 1:1]. THIS IS THE KEY TO THE BOOK. TO SHOW BY SIGNS THE THINGS THAT MUCH SHORTLY COME TO PASS. IT SHOWS THOSE WHO JOHN WAS WRITING TO, BY SYMBOLICAL LANGUAGE MOSTLY TAKEN FROM THE OLD TESTAMENT, SYMBOLICAL LANGUAGE THAT THEY KNEW AND WOULD UNDERSTAND WHAT WOULD SHORTLY TO COME TO PASS TO THOSE WHO WERE PERSECUTING THEM AND THAT GOD IS IN CONTROL AND WILL WIN. It was written to give them hope in the times of persecution by Rome, not to tell them of wars more than two thousand years later, was that would mean nothing to them.

 "The things which must SHORTLY come to pass" [Revelation 1:1]. Not 2,000 or 3,000 years or more away.

 "The things which must SHORTLY come to pass" [Revelation 22:6].

 "And behold, I come QUICKLY" [Revelation 22:7].

 "Seal not up the words of the prophecy of this book; for THE TIME IS AT HAND" [Revelation 22:10]. "For THE TIME IS NEAR" New American Standard Bible.

 "Behold, I come QUICKLY" [Revelation 22:12].

 "Yes: I come QUICKLY" [Revelation 22:20].

 [1] Revelation 20:2-3: The binding of Satan.

 Premillennialists do not see that Revelations is a book of symbols and not to be taken literally. Their literal interpretation must overturn many clear passages.

 Satan was bound at the first coming of Christ [Matthew 12:28-29]. Satan is a spiritual being, therefore, literal keys and chains are a symbolic restraining of Satan that "he should deceive the nations no more, until the thousand years should be finished" He was restrained by the death and resurrection of Christ. "That through death he might bring to naught (nothing) him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; and might deliver all them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage" [Hebrews 2:14-15]. The thousand years Satan is bound is no more literal then the chain he is bound with is a literal chain; a spiritual being cannot be bound with a literal chain, it is symbolic of the restraining power Christ has over Satan. "Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto myself" [John 12:31-32]. "When he ascended on high, he led captivity captive" [Ephesians 4:8]. "And he said unto them, I beheld Satan fallen as lightning from heaven" [Luke 10:18]. "To this end was the Son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil" [1 John 3:8]. Christ defeated Satan and limited his power by His resurrection. Satan was bound at the first coming of Christ. "Or how can one enter into the house of the strong man, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man and then he will spoil his house" [Matthew 12:28-29; John 12:31; 1 John 3:8; Luke 10:18-19; Colossians 2:15; Genesis 3:15]. The binding of the strong man, Satan, was at the first coming of Christ, not at a coming yet to be. "When he ascended on high, he led captivity captive" [Ephesians 4:8]. The number thousand is symbolic of a long indefinite period of time from the death of Christ unto His second coming in which Christ is now reigning, and Satan is now, bound, now in captivity.

 No time for an earthly reign. Christ is now reigning at the right hand of God [Psalms 100:1-4; Acts 2:34-36] "For He must reign, unto He puts all His enemies under His feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death" [1 Corinthians 15:24-28]. Death will not be destroyed unto it is cast into the Lake of Fire [Revelation 20:14]. The last enemy, death, will not be cast into the Lake of Fire unto after when Premillennialists say the thousand year earthly reign will be over, therefore, a Millennium earthly reign would be within the present reign of Christ while He is now in Heaven at the right hand of God, but they move it unto after the coming of Christ, unto after He leaves Heaven and comes back to earth.

 The teaching of some Millennialists that there will be some living on earth for all eternity, "A perpetual continuance of the church upon earth" to raise and train more for heaven but just as it is now most will die without being saved (Lord, Exposition of the Apocalypse, page 535, 1847; also Bickersteth, Birks and others). That there will never be an end to life and death on this earth is so unscriptural and I think to be unbelieved by most Millennialists that I will not go into it. Nevertheless, the readers should know that there will be ages after ages on this earth after the judgment is taught by some Millennialists as a part of the Premillennial doctrine. There is a detailed account of this doctrine by David Brown in "Christ's Second Coming" chapter 7.

 [2] Revelation 20:4-6: The Millennium reign is now, not after the second coming of Christ. "They shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years." The church, which is made up of all the saved, are now priests and are now reigning with Christ in the kingdom. Revelation 20:1-10 is speaking of events that are to take place between the resurrection of Christ and the second coming of Christ, not of events that will take place after He comes.

 "You also, as living stones, are up a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood...But you are an elect race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation (which is a kingdom), a people for Gods own possession, that you may show forth the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light" [1 Peter 2:6-9]. Christ is now a king, and the church is His kingdom.

 "Unto him that love us, and loosed us from our sins by his blood; and he made us to be a kingdom, to be priest unto his God and Father" [Revelation 1:5-6].

 The twenty-four elders sing a new song, saying. "Worthy are you to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for you were slain, and did purchase unto God with your blood men of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation, and made them to be unto our God a kingdom and priests; and they reign upon the earth" The saved are now reigning for a thousand years - symbolic of a long indefinite period of time, which is the time between His being "received up from you into heaven" unto His second coming [Acts 1:11; Revelation 5:9-10].

 The saints are now a kingdom and are priests able to offer up spiritual sacrifice acceptable to God. "You also, as living stones, are built up a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ...But you are an elect race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession" [1 Peter 2:5-9] This is in the present tense, it is not something that will not be unto the Millennium.

 "Giving thanks unto the father, who made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light; who delivered us out of the power of darkness, and translated us into the kingdom of the Son of his love" [Colossians 1:12-13]. This had taken place when Paul wrote this. The translating into the kingdom was when they became Christians, when they were "delivered us out of the power of darkness." The saved are now the kingdom of God. Premillennialists say not so, the kingdom will not be unto after the coming of Christ and it will be made up of only 144,000 Jews.

 THE CHURCH IS THE KINGDOM. THE KINGDOM IS NOT TO BE A NATION THAT REJECTED CHRIST.

 ALL CHRISTIANS ARE NOW PRIESTS. THE THOUSAND YEARS IS NOW, NOT A TIME AFTER THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. All that were "made us ALIVE together with Christ" are now living and reigning with Christ. Being MADE ALIVE is the first resurrection and is when anyone dead in sins is buried with Christ and "raised from the dead" [Romans 6:4].

 AFTER THE THOUSAND-YEAR REIGN OF CHRIST ON EARTH. At this point there is a major division in the Premillennial belief. Some Millennialists think the saved will go to Heaven at the end of the thousand years, but, according to the many pages I have read, it seems that most Millennialists believe that the saved will forever live on this earth even after the Millennium is over.

 Some Premillennialists say on earth-- which one?-- some Premillennialists say in Heaven.

 Revelation 21: WHICH JERUSALEM? Premillennialists believe the literal Jerusalem will literally be restored in chapter 19 and 20, but in chapter 21, the New Jerusalem that comes down out of Heaven is AFTER the time Premillennialists say the earthly Jerusalem has been restored. Which Jerusalem will be on the earth forever, the earthly Jerusalem with the Lake of Fire just to the south of it that many Premillennialists believe chapter 19 and 20 says will be restored, or the new Jerusalem that comes down out of Heaven in chapter 21? If both are interpreted literally, as Millennialists believe all the Bible is to be, is there anyway around there being two Jerusalem on earth forever? BOTH the Jerusalem of the Old Testament Millennialists says will be restored AND the new Jerusalem that will come down out of Heaven.

 If the prophecies of the kingdom are all to be taken literally as Millennialists tell us they are, they make the Bible contradict the Bible.

 No aliens, no uncircumcised, no Gentiles will be allowed in Jerusalem or the temple [Joel 3:17; Zechariah 14:21; Ezekiel 14:21].

 All nations will go up to Jerusalem to worship [Isaiah 2:2-3; Acts 15:24; Galatians 2:14; 4:9-11; 5:1-14]. Worship to take place in all nations [Malachi 1:11].

 Revelation 3:10: "Because YOU did keep the word of my patience, I also will keep YOU from the hour of trial, that hour which is to come upon the whole world, to try them that dwell upon the earth" [Revelation 3:10]. This passage is used and considered crucial to prove the Pretribulation rapture. The church at Philadelphia has long been out of existence. This would make no sense if the hour of trial were not to come unto long after this church had gone out of existence. Why would Christ promise to protect them from missiles that did not exist in their time? THIS PROMISE WAS GIVEN TO A SPECIFIC CHURCH AT PHILADELPHIA, AND THE PROMISE WAS TO PROTECT THEM, NOT TO PROTECT SOMEONE THOUSANDS OF YEARS LATER. The promise to protect them from "The hour or trial," which was soon to come to them is changed by Millennialists and made to be something that would not be in their lifetime; therefore, the promise of protection would not have any meaning to them.

 When Christ speaks of shortening the days of tribulation in Matthew 24:22, it is clear that the days of the tribulation will be shortened because the saints were on earth, not raptured away to Heaven, but some Millennialists say this is the same tribulation that the church at Philadelphia was to be removed from the earth to protect them. They make all tribulations in the Bible be the same tribulation and do not seem to know whether the saints will be on earth or in Heaven when it is going on.

 The same Greek word (from - ek) is used in John 17:15.

 "But that you should keep them FROM (ek) the evil one" [John 17:15].

 "I also will keep you FROM (ek) the hour of trial" [Revelation 3:10].

 Neither time does it mean to remove out of this world as Hal Lindsey teaches.

 PART FOUR: OTHER NEW TESTAMENT PASSAGES

 TWO REJECTIONS OF CHRIST -- two humiliations

 Premillennialists believe the rejection of Christ by the Jews made Him postpone the kingdom of Heaven.

 They also believe that when he comes again that He will be rejected by the nations of the world and the armies of Gog and Magog will force Him to take refuge behind the walls of Jerusalem, and that God will have to send down fire from heaven to save Him. CHRIST, WHO MADE THE WORLD, CAN BE DEFEATED BY MAN TWO TIMES!!! What kind of God do they believe in? But, many Millennialists do not believe Christ is God, that He is just a man. They go to Revelation 20:7-9 and have these armies attacking Christ and those in Jerusalem with Him with bullets, helicopters and bombs. THEM USE EZEKIEL 38 AND 39, WHICH THEY SAY IS THE SAME ATTACK BY GOG AND MAGOG, BUT THE ARMIES ARE ON HORSES AND IN FULL ARMOR WITH SHIELDS AND HELMETS ARE USING BOW AND ARROWS (Ezekiel 39:3-6). Are there now any armies that use armor and bow and arrows? If all scripture is to be taken literally, as they say it is, and if Ezekiel 38 and 39 are the armies that will attack Christ in Jerusalem, as they say they are, them there are now armies that are using bow and arrows. If the walls of Jerusalem were rebuilt, as many Premillennialists say they will be, the walls would be of no use for protection from modern weapons; not even if they were rebuilt a hundred times better than they ever were. If arrow or bullets were used, those in Jerusalem with Christ could not be immortal; they could be killed. How many of those in Jerusalem with Christ do Millennialists think the armies will kill? Maybe they think Satan to be so stupid that he would attack with bullets those who were immortal and could not be killed by them.

 A SUMMERY

 Premillennialists tell us they are the only ones who interpret the Bible literally, but their authors change the scenes with bows and arrow to battles with helicopters, airplanes, tanks, and they change the mark of the beast to a computer chip or a bar code. They change locusts from the bottomless pit in Revelation 9:3 into helicopters, yet they say they are the only ones who take the Bible literally. That after the resurrection the saints could be destroyed by bullets and bombs and would need to be saved from them by God is absurd and this interpretation disproves the Premillennial view. After the resurrection the saints will have "put on immortality" [1 Corinthians 15:53] and will not be subject to death by bullets and bombs. Not subject to Satan or death. But, Premillennialists have rewritten the Bible to suit them.

 THE CROSS WAS PLANNED, NOT A SURPRISE TO GOD. Christ came to die on the cross. It was not something that was not planned by God.

 After the resurrection of Christ, two of His disciples said to Him, "We hoped that it was he who should redeem Israel." This is what the Premillennialists tell us Christ came to do, to set up the kingdom, rule on the throne of David and redeem Israel from Rome. But, Christ said to them, "O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! Behooved it not the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory? And beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, he interpreted to them all the scriptures the things concerning himself" [Luke 24:13-27].

 First: Isaiah 53 makes it as plain as language can make it that Christ was to suffer and die.

 Second: John the Baptist said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, that takes away the sin of the world!" [John 1:29]. In the Old Testament sacrifices, the lamb had to die to take away sins [Exodus 12:5 Leviticus 1:10; 4:32]. Christ could take away sins only by dying.

 Third: Christ foretold of His death and resurrection. "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up" [John 2:19]. "From that time began Jesus to show unto his disciples, that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up" [Matthew 16:21]. At the transfiguration Jesus said, "The Son of man shall be delivered up into the hands of man; and they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised up" [Matthew 17:22-23]. "Therefore the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again, No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment received I from my Father" [John 10:17-18]. The Jews did not have the power to take the life of Jesus, it was in the plain of God for Him to be the sacrifice for sin.

 Fourth: Christ had to die to establish the New Covenant. "And for this cause he is the mediator of a new covenant, that a death having taken place for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, they that have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. For where a testament is, there must of necessity be the death of him that made it" [Hebrews 9:15-16].

 Fifth: The prophets foretold the grace that would come to us by the suffering of Christ [1 Peter 1:10-12].

 Sixth: The rejection of Christ by Israel was foretold, THEREFORE WAS KNOWN ABOUT BY GOD [Isaiah 53; Acts 2:22-32; 3:17-18].

 Revelation 3:10: "Because you did keep the word of my patience, I also will keep you from the hour of trial, that hour which is to come upon the whole world, to try them that dwell upon the earth."

 "The pretribulation interpretation of Revelation 3:10 is totally off the mark for a number of reasons. First, standard biblical methods of interpretation must be completely ignored to apply this passage to a future tribulation two thousand years in the future. The letter is addressed to a specific church (Philadelphia) in Asia Minor in the first century. The specific promise that is made by Jesus is given to the Philadelphian Christians and cannot be applied directly to all the churches of Asia Minor or the universal church. For example, the church of Smyrna is told that they 'will have tribulation ten days. Be faithful unto death' (Rev. 2:10). They are to take comfort in the fact that they cannot be hurt by the second death (2:11). They are not promised protection from the coming time of tribulation. Further, the promise to the Philadelphian Christians is based on their past behavior: 'Because you have kept [eteresas&emdash; aorist active indicative]...I also will keep.' The aorist 'did keep' states the historical fact. The church held fully and completely to the Word as was stated in v. 8: 'and did keep my Word.' 3 Because the promise is based on the behavior of a particular church in Asia Minor it cannot be universalized to include all Christians in the distant future. To do so is to render the commendation to the Philadelphians meaningless. Second, the time indicators within the passage render impossible the idea that the promise was not to take place for two thousand years. The passage says that the hour of trial is about to happen. 'I also will keep thee from the hour of trial that is about to come upon all the world' (Rev. 3:10, Young's Literal Translation of the Bible). When the verb mello is joined to the present infinitive which is what is found in Revelation 3:10 (tes mellouses erchesthai), it always expresses imminence. When Jesus says that the hour of trial is about to come, He means it will happen soon. 4 To place the promise thousands of years away is a denial of the plain meaning of the Greek language. Chilton writes: 'Does it make sense that Christ would promise the church in Philadelphia protection from something that would happen thousands of years later? Be of good cheer, you faithful, suffering Christians of first century Asia Minor: I won't let those Soviet missiles and killer bees of the 20th century get you!' When the Philadelphian Christians were worried about more practical, immediate concerns - official persecution, religious discrimination, social ostracism, and economic boycotts - what did they care about Hal Lindsey's lucrative horror stories?" Brian M. Schwertley, "Is the Pretribulation Rapture Biblical?"

 Jude 14-15: CHRIST WILL BE COMING FROM HEAVEN WITH HIS "HOLY ONES," THE ANGELS, NOT DEAD SAINTS THAT ARE NOT DEAD. "Behold, the Lord comes with many thousands of His holy (hagios) ones" [Jude 14 New American Standard Version]. "Saints" in the King James Version is from "hagios," which is the same word that is translated "holy" 93 times in the "Holy (hagios) Spirit." It will be the angels that come from Heaven with Christ, not those who are "asleep in Christ." "When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy (hagios) angels with Him" [Matthew 25:31, King James Version]. "When he comes in the glory of his father with the holy (hagios) angels" [Mark 8:38]. "For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven, with a shout, with the voice of the archangel" [1 Thessalonians 4:16]. "The Son of man shall send forth his angels" [Matthew 13:41]. "At the coming of our Lord Jesus with all His saints (hagios-holy)" [1 Thessalonians 3:13]. "Holy ones" New International Version. Both Jude 14 and 1 Thessalonians 3:13 use "hagios." Strong's word number 40 "Sacred...blameless or religious (most) holy (one, thing), saint." THOSE WHO COME WITH CHRIST FROM HEAVEN ARE THE HOLY ANGELS, NOT THOSE WHO ARE ASLEEP IN CHRIST.

 THE MISSION OF CHRIST IN HIS FIRST COMING WAS TO SAVE FROM SIN, NOT TO SET UP AN EARTHLY JEWISH KINGDOM IN JERUSALEM.

 REVELATION 20, THE THOUSAND YEARS

 THE FIRST RESURRECTION AND THE SECOND DEATH. IS THERE ONE RESURRECTION OR TWO OR MORE THAN TWO RESURRECTIONS? Many Millennialists tell us there will be two or more resurrections, some tell us there will be a resurrection at the first of the Millennium, some tell us the resurrection will be at some point of time in the Millennium. Many say the first resurrection of Revelation 20:6 is the resurrection of the righteous dead which will be at the beginning of the Millennium, and some that there will be a resurrection of the lost at the end of the Millennium.

 THE THOUSAND-YEARS: In the New Testament many symbols are used and many of them we are told just what they are symbols of. We are given the interpretation in clear plan language. WHEN WE ARE TOLD EXACTLY WHAT THE INTERPRETATION IS IN PLAN LANGUAGE, WE MUST NOT CHANGE THE INTERPRETATION OF THE SYMBOL. THE PREMILLENNIALISTS MAKE A SYMBOL (the thousand years) INTO A LITERAL TIME. THEY CANNOT ACCEPT THE BIBLE INTERPRETATION OF THE THOUSAND-YEAR REIGN FOR IF THEY DID, IT WOULD LITERALLY BLOW THE MILLENNIAL DOCTRINE OUT OF THE WATER FOREVER.

 THE SYMBOLS ------------ THE BIBLE'S INTERPRETATION

 THE FIELD -------- IS THE WORLD not a farm Matthew 13:38

 THE GOOD SEED ---- ARE THE SONS OF THE KINGDOM not a garden Matthew 13:38

 THE TARES -------- ARE THE SONS OF THE EVIL ONE not weeds Matthew 13:38

 BOWLS OF INCENSE - ARE PRAYERS OF THE SAINTS not cereal Revelation 5:8

 THE TEN HORNS ---- ARE TEN KINGS not ten trumpets Revelation 17:12

 THE WATERS ------- ARE PEOPLES, MULTITUDES, NATIONS not seas Revelation 17:15

 THE WOMAN -------- IS THE GREAT CITY not a female Revelation 17:18

 FINE LINEN ------- IS RIGHTEOUS ACTS OF THE SAINTS not a tablecloth Revelation 19:8

 THE DRAGON ------- IS THE DEVIL AND SATAN Revelation 20:2

 1,000 YEAR REIGN - IS THE FIRST RESURRECTION not a kingdom on earth after the second coming of Christ Revelation 20:5

 LAKE OF FIRE ----- IS THE SECOND DEATH not a deathless place of torment. All die once, sinners will die twice Revelation 21:8

 The interpretation is ONLY what it is stated to be. The thousand years is the first resurrection. The thousand years and the lake of fire are the two most misused symbols in this book. It is as if God knew they would be, and He plainly said what they are symbols of so there could be no excuses to misuse them. Those who are baptized into Christ have been raised with Him, they were dead and are now alive. This is the first resurrection, and those who have a part in it will not be subject to the second death after the judgment. Those in Christ are now "kings and priests" [Revelation 1:6], they are a "kingdom and priests; and THEY REIGN UPON THE EARTH" [Revelation 5:9-10]. The thousand years is symbolical of an indefinite time in which the saints will reign with Christ and will be from the death of Christ to His second coming. God says He owns the "cattle on a thousand hills" [Psalms 50:10]. This does not mean the cattle on all the other hills are not His, but a thousand is used to indicate the completeness God ownership. Compare 2 Peter 3:8; Revelation 5:11; Deuteronomy 1:11; 7:9; Psalms 50:10; 68:17; 84:10; 90:4 where thousand is used figurative of a vast number, not a literal thousand.

 Strong list ten Greek words that are translated thousand in the New Testament. Only two of them are used in Revelations.

 Strong's word 5505, "chalias" is used 22 times in the New Testament. Luke 14:31 used two times; Acts 4:4; 1 Corinthians 10:8; Revelations 5:11; 7:4; 7:5 three times; 7:6 three times; 7:7 three times; 7:8 three times; 11:13; 14:1; 14:3; 21:16. In all of the 22 times it is used the precisely number of thousands is stated.

 Strong's word 5507, "chiloi" which Strong says is "plural" and "uncertain." It is used eleven times in the New Testament. Thousands (an indefinite plural) of years is a long indefinite period of time having no certain or fixed limit. "Chiloi" is used in 2 Peter 3:8 two times; Revelations 11:3; 12:6; 14:20; 20:2; 20:3; 20:4; 20:5; 20:6; 20:7.

 WHAT IS THE FIRST RESURRECTION?

 THE FIRST RESURRECTION IS WHEN A PERSON IS "BORN ANEW...BORN OF THE WATER AND THE SPIRIT" [John 3:3-5]. "And you did he make ALIVE when you were dead... MADE US ALIVE together with Christ (by grace have you been saved), and RAISED US UP WITH HIM" [Ephesians 2:1-6; Galatians 2:18-19; 3:1]. The first resurrection is when, "We were buried therefore with him through baptism into death: that like as Christ was RAISED FROM THE DEAD" [Romans 6:3-18]. "You died with Christ...you were RAISED together with Christ" [Colossians 2:20 - 3:1]. "Make ALIVE together with him" [Colossians 2:13]. When anyone becomes a Christian, that person must be dead, buried, and resurrected with Christ [Romans 6:3-18]. "Blessed and holy is he that has part in the FIRST RESURRECTION: over these the second death has no power" [Revelation 20:6].

 "Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that hears my word, and believes him that sent me, has eternal life, and comes not into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour comes, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and they that hear shall live" [John 5:24-25]. The first resurrection is when a person believes and passes "out of death into life." All Christians have passed "out of death into life." Those who were dead, buried, and resurrected with Christ, "was raised from the dead" [Romans 6:3-18; Colossians 2:12-13]. "But God, being rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead through our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace have you been saved), and raised us up with him, and made us to sit with him in the heavenly places, in Christ Jesus" [Ephesians 2:4-6]. "He that hears my word, and believes him that sent me, has eternal life, and comes not in judgment, but has passed out of death into life" [John 5:24-25]. "We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brethren" [1 John 3:14]. As all who died, was buried and resurrected with Christ and live faithful have their name in the book of life, they will not be subject to the second death, but all others will be. "He that believes on the Son has eternal life; but he that obeys not the Son shall not see life" [John 3:36]. "Wherefore he says, Awake, you that sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall shine on you" [Ephesians 5:14].

 THE THOUSAND YEAR REIGN IS THE FIRST RESURRECTION, not a kingdom on earth after the second coming of Christ Revelation 20:5. The thousand years and the lake of fire are the two most misused symbols in this book. It is as if God knew they would be misused, and He plainly said what they are symbols of so there could be no excuses to misuse them. Those in Christ are now "kings and priests" [Revelation 1:6]. Are a "kingdom and priests; and THEY REIGN UPON THE EARTH" [Revelation 5:9-10]. Those who are baptized into Christ have been raised with Him; they were dead and now have the life He gives and they live with Him. This is the first resurrection, and those who have a part in it will not be subject to the second death after the judgment. All others are dead in that they do not have the life He gives and after the resurrection and judgment they will die the second death. The thousand years is symbolic of an indefinite time in which the saints who were raised from the dead [Romans 6:4] are now reigning with Christ. The saved reigning with Christ begins after the resurrection of Christ and will last to His second coming. "But God is so rich in mercy, and he loved us so much, that even while we were dead because of our sins, he GAVE US LIFE when he raised Christ from the dead...FOR HE RAISED US FROM THE DEAD ALONG WITH CHRIST" [Ephesians 2:4 New Living Bible]. "But God, rich in mercy, for the great love he bore us, BROUGHT US TO LIFE WITH CHRIST...HE RAISED US UP" [Ephesians 2:4 New English Bible].

 THE FIRST RESURRECTION PUTS A PERSON IN THE KINGDOM. "Giving thanks unto the Father, who made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light; who delivered us out of the power of darkness, and translated us into the kingdom of the Son of his love; in whom we have our redemption, the forgiveness of our sins" [Colossians 1:13-14]. How then do the Millennialists tell us that God failed and there is no kingdom to be translated into?

 THE FIRST RESURRECTION PUTS A PERSON IN THE CHURCH - KINGDOM. "The church of the Lord which he purchased with his own blood" [Acts 20:28].

 THE FIRST RESURRECTION PUTS A PERSON NAME IN THE BOOK OF LIFE. "And if any was not found written in the book of life" [Revelation 20:15].

 The resurrection at the coming of Christ (never called "the second resurrection" in the Bible) will be a resurrection of all, both the saved and the lost. "For the HOUR comes, in which ALL THAT ARE IN THE TOMBS shall hear his voice, and shall come forth: THEY THAT HAVE DONE GOOD, unto the resurrection of life; and THEY THAT HAVE DONE EVIL, unto the resurrection of judgment" [John 5:28-29]. It would not be passable to say that both the good and the evil will be resurrected on the same day and in the same hour, not a thousand years apart, any clearer than Christ did. All who did not pass "out of death into life" in the first resurrection will be hurt of the second death [Revelation 2:11; 21:8]. "The wages of sin is death" [Romans 6:23].

 THE SECOND DEATH: "FOR THE WAGES OF SIN IS DEATH; but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord" [Romans 6:23]. "But for the fearful, and unbelieving, and abominable, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, their part shall be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone: WHICH IS THE SECOND DEATH" [Revelation 21:8]. ONLY THOSE WHO ARE BORN AGAIN (the first resurrection) WILL ESCAPE THE SECOND DEATH. "Fear not the things which you are about to suffer: behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison, that you may be tried; and you shall have tribulation ten days. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. HE THAT OVERCOMES SHALL NOT BE HURT OF THE SECOND DEATH" [Revelation 2:10-11]. This is Christ speaking to the church at Smyrna about what was soon to happen to them and their reward if they were faithful unto their death. All that partake of the first resurrection will escape the second death, they will die only once. All that do not partake of the first resurrection, are not baptized into the death of Christ and raised from the dead with Him, will die twice, temporal death that all will suffer and the second death because of sin. The second death will be after the judgment.

 Only two alternatives: (1) to "have part in the first resurrection" and have your name in the book of life (2) or not have your name in the book of life and die the second death [Revelation 20:6].

 THE RESURRECTION OF ALL AT THE COMING OF CHRIST. Plain statements that speak of ALL being resurrected simultaneously. The passages that speak of the resurrection can be divided into two groups.

 Passages which speak of the resurrection and judgment of ALL at the coming of Christ. Acts 17:31; John 5:28-29; 2 Thessalonians 1:7-10; Matthew 25:46; Hebrews 10:27; 2 Corinthians 5:10; Romans 14:10; 2:5-16; 1 Thessalonians 5:2-3; 2 Peter 2:12; 3:7-11; 2:10; 2 Timothy 4:1; Revelation 2:11; 21:8.

 Passages which are speaking to those who are in the Lord about their resurrection at the coming of Christ and says nothing about the resurrection of those who are not in the Lord. Philippians 3:11; Philippians 3:20-21; 1 Thessalonians 4:13-17; 1 Corinthians 15:49-56.

 THE RESURRECTION AT THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. The only way Premillennialists can be made to work is to deny the passages that say all, both saved and lost, will be resurrected at the second coming of Christ and make the resurrection of the saved and the lost be a thousand years apart, a thousand years after the second coming. See CHAPTER 7 - THE DAY OF THE LORD on the day of the resurrection.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 13

 THE EIGHT "LAST DAYS" PASSAGES

 Millennialists tell us that the "last days" spoken of in the New Testament will be the Millennium.

 "Last day" (similar) is used seven times in John speaking of the Judgment day [John 6:39; 6:40; 6:44; 6:54; 7:37; 11:24; 12:48]. The day that Christ comes, not a thousand years after the "last day."

 "Last days" (plural) is used five times speaking of the time that we now live in, not the Millennium [Acts 2:17; 2 Timothy 3:1; Hebrews 1:2; James 5:3; 2 Peter 3:3]. In none of these passages is anything said about something that will happen later in a Millennium. We are now in the "last days," the Christian or church dispensation. Peter called the "last days" "these days" in Acts 3:24. "All the prophets from Samuel and them that followed after, as many as have spoken, they also told of these days." Regardless of the fact that, according to Millennialists, none of the prophets know nothing of these days, Peter says "All the prophets...told of these days."

 "THIS IS THAT which has been spoken through the prophet Joel: and it shall be in the last days..." [Acts 2:16-17]. The things spoken of by Joel were coming to pass then, not to come to pass in the Millennium.

 "But know this, that in the last days grievous times shall come" [2 Timothy 3:1].

 "God...has at the end of these days spoken unto us in his Son." "In these last days" King James Version.

 "Your gold and your silver are rusted; and their rust shall be for a testimony against you, and shall eat your flesh as fire. You have lain up your treasure in the last days" [James 5:3]. James was writing to them about something they had done in the lost days, not something that some would do more than two-thousand years later.

 "That you should remember the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles: knowing this first, the in the last days mockers shall come with mockery, walking after their own lusts" [2 Peter 2-3].

 "The last time" is used five times, all five are speaking of these days that we are now in, not of a time that will not be unto after the coming of Christ. "It is the last time" [1 John 2:18; 2:18; Jude 18] "These last times" [1 Peter 1:20] "In the last time" [1 Peter 1:5].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 14

 WHAT IS "THE GREAT TRIBULATION"?

 No scripture refers to a seven-year tribulation to come. It is purely made-up fiction.

 Speaking of the destruction of Israel in A. D. 70, Jesus said there would be a great tribulation [Matthew 24:21; Daniel 9:26-27]. "Such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, nor ever shall be." Christ said that was the greatest tribulation that has ever been and the greatest tribulation that shall ever be. Millennialists say, "Not so Jesus, the seven year tribulation to come will be the greatest.

 Jesus said all that believed in and followed Him would have tribulation in this world [John 16:33].

 All martyrs in all ages have had great tribulation.

 John was in tribulation and the kingdom [Revelation 1:9].

 Paul told the Thessalonians that they were to suffer afflictions [1 Thessalonians 3:4].

 Thlipsis is in the Greek New Testament 45 times. It is translated tribulation, affliction, persecution, anguish, trouble, and burdened. In English today, tribulation is not often used except with its religious theological meaning. Affliction, persecution, anguish, and trouble may be a better translation as they are used frequency in our everyday language and have not been given a theological meaning.

 In the King James Version thlipsis is translated:

 Tribulation 21 times

 Affliction 18 times

 Persecution 1 times

 Anguish 1 times

 Trouble 3 times

 Burdened 1 times

 Thlipsis covers a wide range of troubles (tribulations or afflictions) varying from marriage, childbirth, famine, widows and orphans hardships, afflictions and persecutions.

 "Thlipsis" as it is translated in the King James Version.

 "Yet has he not root in himself, but endures for a while; and when tribulation [thlipsis] or persecution arises because of the word straightaway he stumbles" [Matthew 13:21].

 "Afterward, when affliction [thlipsis] or persecution arises" [Mark 4:17].

 "Shall they deliver you up to be afflicted [thlipsis]" [Matthew 24:9].

 "For then shall be great tribulation [thlipsis]" [Matthew 24:21].

 "These days shall be affliction [thlipsis]" [Mark 13:19].

 "After the tribulation [thlipsis] of these days" [Matthew 24:29]. See chapter 16 on Matthew 24.

 "After that tribulation [thlipsis]" [Mark 13:24].

 "She remembers no more the anguish [thlipsis]" [John 16:21].

 "In the would you shall have tribulation [thlipsis]" [John 16:33].

 "Out of all his afflictions [thlipsis]" [Acts 7:10].

 "And great afflictions [thlipsis]" [Acts 7:11].

 "Upon the persecution [thlipsis] that arose" [Acts 11:19].

 "And that through many tribulations [thlipsis]" [Acts 14:22].

 "That bonds and afflictions [thlipsis] abide me" [Acts 20:23].

 "Shall be wrath and indignation, tribulation [thlipsis] and anguish, upon every soul of man that works evil" [Romans 2:9].

 "We also rejoice in our tribulations [thlipsis]: knowing that tribulation [thlipsis] works steadfastness" [Romans 5:3].

 "Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation [thlipsis], or anguish, or persecution, or famine..." [Romans 8:35].

 "Patient in tribulation [thlipsis]" [Romans 12:12].

 "Yet such shall have trouble [thlipsis] in the flesh" [1 Corinthians 7:28].

 "Who comforts us in all our tribulation [thlipsis], that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble [thlipsis]" [2 Corinthians 1:4].

 "Our trouble [thlipsis] which came to us in Asia" [2 Corinthians 1:8].

 "For out of much affliction [thlipsis] and anguish of heart" [2 Corinthians 2:4].

 "For our light affliction [thlipsis], which is but for a moment" [2 Corinthians 4:17].

 "Approving ourselves...in afflictions [thlipsis]" [2 Corinthians 6:4].

 "I am filled with comfort, I am exceeding joyful in all our tribulation [thlipsis]" [2 Corinthians 7:4].

 "How that in a great trial of affliction [thlipsis]" [2 Corinthians 8:2].

 "For I mean not that other men be eased, and you burdened [thlipsis]" [2 Corinthians 8:13].

 "Wherefore I desire that you faint not at my tribulations [thlipsis] for you, which is your glory" [Ephesians 3:13].

 "The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction [thlipsis] to my bonds" [Philippians 1:17].

 "Notwithstanding you have well done, that you did communicate with my affliction [thlipsis]" [Philippians 4:14].

 "Who now rejoice in my suffering for you, and fill up that which behind of the afflictions [thlipsis] of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church" [Colossians 1:24].

 "Having receive the word in much affliction [thlipsis]" [1 Thessalonians 1:6].

 "That no man should be moved by these afflictions [thlipsis]" [1 Thessalonians 3:3].

 "Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our affliction [thlipsis] and distress by your faith" [1 Thessalonians 3:7].

 "In all your persecutions and tribulations [thlipsis] that you endure" [2 Thessalonians 1:4].

 "Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation [thlipsis] to them that trouble you" [2 Thessalonians 1:6].

 "You were made a gazing stock both by reproaches and afflictions [thlipsis]" [Hebrews 10:33].

 "To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction [thlipsis]" [James 1:27].

 "I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation [thlipsis], and in the kingdom" [Revelation 1:9].

 "I know your works, and tribulation [thlipsis], and poverty" [Revelation 2:9].

 "The devil shall cast some of you into prison, that you may be tried; and you shall have tribulation [thlipsis] ten days; be faithful unto death and I will give you a crown of life" [Revelation 2:10].

 "Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation [thlipsis], except they repent of their deeds" [Revelation 2:22].

 "And I said unto him, 'Sir you know.' And he said to me, 'There are they which came out of great tribulation [thlipsis], and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb'" [Revelation 7:14].

 In the New International Version the forty-five times thlipsis is used it is translated ten way, but it is translated "tribulation" only one time.

 TROUBLE 16 times: Matthew 13:21; Mark 4:17; John 16:33; Acts 7:10; Romans 2:9; 8:25; 1 Corinthians 7:28; 2 Corinthians 1:4; 1:4; 1:8; 4:17; 6:4; 7:4; Philippians 1:16; 4:14; 2 Thessalonians 1:6

 DISTRESS 5 times: Matthew 24:21; 24:29; 2 Corinthians 2:4; 1 Thessalonians 3:7; James 1:27

 SUFFERING 8 times: Acts 7:11; Romans 5:3; 5:3; Ephesians 3:13; Colossians 1:24; 1 Thessalonians 1:6; Revelation 1:9; 2:22

 PERSECUTION 6 times: Matthew 13:19; 13:24; 24:9; Mats 11:19; Romans 2:10; Hebrews 10:32

 TRIALS 3 times: 2 Corinthians 8:2; 1 Thessalonians 3:3; 2 Thessalonians 1:4

 AFFLICTION 2 times: Romans 12:12; Revelation 2:9

 HARDSHIP 2 times: Acts 14:22; 20:23

 ANGUISH 1 time: John 16:21

 HARD PRESSED 1 time: 2 Corinthians 8:13

 TRIBULATION 1 time: Revelation 7:14 (Only one time out of forty-five times)

 In the New Revised Standard Version the forty-five times thlipsis is used it translated ten ways but never "tribulation."

 SUFFERING 9 times: Matthew 24:21; 24:29; Mark 13:19; 13:24; Acts 7:11; Romans 12:12; Ephesians 3:13; Philippians 1:16; Colossians 1:24

 AFFLICTION 11 times: Acts 7:10; 2 Corinthians 1:4; 1:4; 1:8; 4:17; 6:4; 7:4; 8:2; 2 Thessalonians 1:6; Revelation 2:9; 2:10

 PERSECUTION 11 times: Matthew 13:21; John 16:33; Acts 11:19; 14:22; 20:23; 1 Thessalonians 1:6; 3:3; 3:7; 2 Thessalonians 1:4; Hebrews 10:33; Revelation 1:9

 DISTRESS 6 times: Romans 2:9; 1 Corinthians 7:28; 2 Corinthians 2:4; Philippians 4:14; James 1:27; Revelation 2:22

 ANGUISH 3 times: John 16:21; Romans 5:3; 5:3

 TORTURED 1 time: Matthew 24:9

 TROUBLE 1 time: Mark 4:17

 HARDSHIP 1 time: Romans 8:35

 PRESSURE 1 time: 2 Corinthians 8:13

 ORDEAL 1 time: Revelation 7:14

 There will always be persecution (tribulation) for those in Christ [Matthew 24:9; John 16:33]. Christians were persecuted by Jews unto A. D. 70 [Acts 11:19; Romans 5:3]. Revelation begins with, "The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants WHAT MUST SOON TAKE PLACE" [Revelation 1:1]. The persecution that was begin by Nero was fallowed by Roman emperors up the time of Constantine in 313 A. D. John was writing Revelation near the start of this persecution to those who were being persecuted or soon would be, not about what is to be with the Jews about two-thousand years later.

 Two other words are translated persecution in the New Testament, Diogmos is used 10 times and Dioko is used 44 times, but none of the passages they are in are generally used by Millennialists to prove there will be a great seven-year tribulation before or after the coming of Christ.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 15

 WHAT IS ARMAGEDDON?

 Many Premillennialists believe Christ will come to set up the kingdom of David and to restore the Old Testament; then after a thousand years the battle of Armageddon will be fought in Jerusalem. It is believed there will be a Literal battle in which Satan and all wicked nations will make war on Christ, who will be in Jerusalem, and He will be all but overcame by them, but will be saved by God. All the wicked dead who has been resurrected in their earthly bodies will literally be destroyed, their bodies of flesh being burnt alive in Gehenna, which would have been restored; then Christ and all the saved will forever live on this earth.

 The above is the view taken by many Millennialists, but there are many differences and disagreements in Premillennialism.

 Many believed that World War 1 was a sign that the end of the world was near, then World War 2, then the Gulf War, and many other wars, now it is the war going on in the Middle East, tomorrow it will be the war that is going on then. Now preachers are on T. V. shouting and books are written every time there is another war saying the new war is a sign that the end is near.

 Some (not Premillennialists) believe Armageddon is the battle of good and evil, which have been raged from the beginning of time.

 Armageddon is not used in the Bible, but is thought by some to be Har-Magedon in Revelation 16:16 which has a footnote that says, "Some authorities read Armageddon." Revelation 16 is a highly symbolic chapter of the seven bowls of the wrath of God poured out on the earth by seven angels and the result of each. Revelation 16:16 is a part of the results of the sixth angel pouring out his bowl of God's wrath on the earth. None of the seven bowls of wrath are what will take place at the second coming of Christ. They are judgments on the earth before the final judgment at the second coming of Christ. They are more comparable to the judgments of the plagues upon Egypt [Exodus chapters 9 to 12].

 In Revelation 16:16 there was no battle at "the place which in Hebrew is called Har-Magedon," but Premillennialists, after moving it to Jerusalem, added to it the greatest battle of all times. If, as we are told by Premillennialists in the many books about the battle of Armageddon, that all the nations of the earth will come together at Jerusalem in this battle against Christ, Jerusalem would not hold them. Har-Magedon "which means 'Mount of Megiddo'" [Commentary on Revelation by Homer Hailey, page 336]. This "Mount of Megiddo" is not mentioned any other place in the Bible and not known about. Megiddo is mentioned in Joshua 17:11, Judges 1:27; 5:19, 6; 7; 2 Chronicles 35:22; and Zechariah 12:11. It was a place, not a mountain, near the Mediterranean Sea and it was a good way from Jerusalem. Premillennialists, by no authority other that what they want, adds a battle then puts this battle in Jerusalem. IF TAKEN LITERALLY, AS PREMILLENNIALISTS SAY ALL THE BIBLE MUST BE, THERE WAS NO EARTHLY BATTLE OF THE NATIONS OF THE WORLD AT HER-MAGEDON (ARMAGEDDON). BUT, PREMILLENNIALISTS HAVE ADDED THE GREATEST BATTLE OF ALL TIMES AND MOVED THE LOCATION OF THEIR ADDED BATTLE FROM HER-MAGEDON TO JERUSALEM (Armageddon in the poorly translated King James Version, even so, there is nothing said about earthly armies or an earthly battle actually taking place at Armageddon even in the King James Version). Also, they tell us that Christ will be on David's throne in Jerusalem, not at the site of the Old Testament city of Magedon on the Mediterranean Sea. Premillennialists books of fiction have Christianity being spread by means of physical force in a literal battle fought with primitive weaponry (which in their books of fiction become atom bombs) against unclean spirits that look like frogs and spirits of demons at a place that is put into the King James Version by mistranslating. It is difficult to know what is symbolized in Revelation 16 and 19, but not at all difficult to know Premillennialists books of fiction that has a literal physical battle where Christians kill the wicked, and it is a battle where "blood will stand to the horses bridles for a distance of 200 miles northward and southward of Jerusalem" has completely missed it.

 Christ said, "My kingdom is not of this world, If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews; but not my kingdom is not from here" [John 18:36]. The battle in Revelation 16:16 at Har-Magedon is a symbolic description of a great spiritual battle between Satan and his army and God. This battle which was won by God probability was the defeat of the Roman Empire which was persecuting the saints at the time John wrote this.

 Hal Lindsey in "The Late Great Planet Earth" has the battle moved from Revelation 16:16 back to Revelation 14:20. He says, "Cites like London, Paris, Tokyo, New York, Chicago...obliterated...entire islands and mountains blown off the map...so many people will be slaughtered in the conflict that blood will stand to the horses' bridles for a total distance of 200 miles northward and southward of Jerusalem (Rev 14:20)." Things in visions cannot always be made to be literal. He has horses being used in a modern day war. In the vision, the blood came from the "great wine press, of the wrath of God," not from bombs. There is no battle of nations in Revelation 14 or 16. Atom bombs do not press the blood out and leave it in a lake. If all the people in the world were taken to Jerusalem, and their blood pressed out, it is doubtful there would be enough blood to make a 400 miles lake of blood up to the bridles of horses. This seems to be a symbolical picture of judgment from God, not a literal war of nations; a symbolical picture showing that good will ultimately overcome and God will be victorious. "Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of Life" [Revelation 2:10]. The modern Premillennial view would have been meanless confusion to those of the first century to whom it was written.

 THERE IS NOT ONE PASSAGE IN THE BIBLE THAT SAYS CHRIST WILL EVER BE ON THIS EARTH AGAIN IN THE FLESH. HE WILL NOT RETURN TO HIS EARTHY BODY A SECOND TIME, BUT THIS IS WHAT HE MUST DO IF THERE IS TO BE A BATTLE ON THIS EARTH WITH CHRIST IN JERUSALEM LITERALLY FIGHTING SATAN AND THE WICKED NATIONS.

 THE MILLENNIUM TIME TABLE

 This is only a general outline of Millennialists views. There are many variations among Millennialists of this work of fiction.

 ON EARTH DURING THE SEVEN-YEAR RAPTURE: All the saved would have been resurrected and along with the living saints will have been caught up to Heaven in the rapture. The 144.000 Jews will save most if not all Jews and many others in the first part of Daniel's 70th week (3 and 1/2 years). I could not find how they think the 144.000, who were not among the saved at the time of the rapture will be converted, or to what they will be converted to, the Law or to Christ; when all the saved in Heaven with Christ who will convert them?

 A few seem to think the first half of the 70th week was the three and a half years Christ was teaching before His death, therefore would be passed and could not be a part of a rapture that is still to come.

 THE TRIBULATION is a pure work of fiction. It is said to be the last half or Daniel's 70th week, which we are told is 3 and 1/2 years (see chapter 13). In this time the Roman dictator (the Antichrist) proclaims himself to be God and desecrates the temple in Jerusalem. He kills the 144,000 Jews who had converted the world in the first half of Daniel's 70th week.

 The Jews are persecuted. Israel is attacked by the king of the South (Egypt, Africa and Arab).

 The king of the North (Russia) Attacks Israel and destroys the king of the North.

 Then comes the king of the West (Europe) and destroys the king of the North.

 Then comes the king of the East (China) with about 200 million soldier and attacks the king of the West.

 According to many Millennialists, this seems to be when the battle of Armageddon takes place (or this is the battle of Armageddon), but there is much confusion and disagreement on this.

 God steps in and stops the war from destroying Christ and the restored Israel. Some Millennialists say to stop the war from destroying the whole world.

 THE MILLENNIUM

 At the end of the 7 years, the end of the rapture, Christ comes back to earth and will land on the Mount of Olives with all the saved that was raptured to Heaven at the beginning of Daniel's 70th week.

 All that were killed in the tribulation (the 144,000 and others Jews) will be resurrected immortal.

 Christ sits on David's throne in the restored Israel (Law of Moses with it temple worship and animal sacrifices).

 The curse on the ground when Adam sinned is removed and all will speak one language. Satan is bound.

 AFTER THE MILLENNIUM

 Satan loosed for a little season.

 He makes war on Christ and Jerusalem (the battle of Gog and Magog).

 The second resurrection, the resurrection of only the wicked who was not raised in the first resurrection of the saved only at the beginning of the millennium.

 The judgment and destruction of Satan and the wicked (some Millennialists say "destruction" others say "Hell").

 At this point there is a sharp division among Millennialists. At the end of the thousand years

 Some believe Christ and the saved will return to Heaven.

 Many (I think most Millennialists) believe Christ and the saved will forever be on this earth.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 16

 WHO IS JOHN'S "ANTICHRIST"? WHO IS PAUL'S "MAN OF SIN"?

 In the Premillennialists books of fiction the Antichrist has been made into a person who is now living or will be very soon. Some believe Satan is the Antichrist, but most believe the Antichrist will be an evil world ruler that will come into power during the Tribulation period. Hal Lindsey in 1970 said the Antichrist will come in this generation, page 133; and his coming will be just before the coming of Christ, page 140, "The Late Great Planet Earth"

 "Antichrist" is used five times in three passages, all by John.

 "Children, it is the last hour; and as you have heard that ANTICHRIST is coming, SO NOW MANY ANTICHRIST HAVE COME; therefore, we know that it is the last hour. THEY ("many Antichrist") WENT OUT FROM US, but THEY ("many Antichrist") were not of us; for if THEY ("many Antichrist") had been of us, THEY ("many Antichrist") would have continued with us; but THEY ("many Antichrist") went out that it might be plain that THEY ("many Antichrist") all are not of us. But, you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all know. I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and know that no lie is of the truth. Who is the liar but HE WHO DENIES THAT JESUS IS THE CHRIST? THIS IS THE ANTICHRIST, HE WHO DENIES THE FATHER AND THE SON. No one who denies the Son has the Father. He who confesses the Son has the father also" [1 John 2:18-23]. THE MANY ANTICHRIST WAS PERSONS THAT WERE CHRISTIANS AND TEACHERS IN THE CHURCH AND WERE LIVING AT THE TIME JOHN WAS WRITING, BUT "THEY WENT OUT FROM US." ALL WHO DENIES THE CHRIST IN THE PAST, NOW, AND IN THE FUTURE ARE ANTICHRIST, NOT ONE PERSON WHO WILL RULE THE WORLD.

 "Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are of God; for many false prophets have gone out into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit which confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God, and every spirit which does not confess Jesus is not of God. This is the spirit of ANTICHRIST, of which you heard that it was coming, and now it is in the world already" [1 John 4:1-3]. John defines the Antichrist not as a coming world leader or as one person as the Millennialists do, but as many persons, all that do not confess Jesus and the Apostle John said many Antichrist had come at the time he was writing. Millennialists believe John was wrong for Hal Lindsey and others says the Antichrist is one man, and believe this man is now be in the world.

 "For many deceivers have gone out into the world, even they who will not acknowledge the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the ANTICHRIST" [2 John 7].

 The Antichrist appeared long ago. It is clear that the Antichrist John was speaking of was PERSONS that were living at that time, not one person who is living today. It is ALL persons that deny Christ. Millennialists may be the largest group that says they are Christian but deny that Jesus is divine, therefore, the largest group of Antichrist today.

 There were many Antichrist, and some of them were already in the world, not just one man that is yet to be make known [1 John 4:1-6; 2 John 7].

 Anyone who denies that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God is an Antichrist [1 John 2:18-19].

 Many Antichrist had been members of the church and had left it [2 John 2:26; 4:1; 2 John 7 and 10].

 Luther, Calvin, Wesley, Wycliff, Huss, Knox and nearly all Protestant reformers and Protestant commentaries believed the Antichrist to be the Papacy but many Antichrist was in the world in John's time long before the Papacy. The Roman Catholic Church objected to being branded the Antichrist and in 1590 a commentary was published by Francisco Ribera that was counter to the view taught by most Protestant, in which he said the man of sin was one evil man that would come to the Jews and be received by then near the end of time and he would rebuild their temple. He put the Antichrist outside of the church and Christianity and made the Antichrist to be only one man that had not yet come. Ribera's new view of the Antichrist is basically the same view taught today by most Millennialists. This view is in the "Left Behind" series of fictional novels by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins. Some Millennialists believe this man is now in the world and waiting for the right time. THAT THERE IS ONLY ONE ANTICHRIST, WHETHER HE IS THE POPE OR SOMEONE STILL TO COME AND HE WILL NOT COME UNTO THE MILLENNIUM IS PURE FICTION. THERE IS NOTHING IN THE BIBLE ABOUT SUCH A PERSON. If the Protestant reformers were right in believing the Pope being Antichrist, he would be only one among many Antichrist.

 LaHaye claimed that there are twenty-six rapture passages which he used to separate the second coming by seven years. He combines unrelated passages together just as the well-known example of being able to prove anything by combining unrelated passages together; Judas "went and hanged himself...you go and do likewise" [Matthew 27:5 combined with Luke 10:37].

 The word "Antichrist" is not in the Book of Revelation but many Millennialists believe the beast in Revelation 13 to be him.

 PAUL'S "MAN OF SIN"

 "The man of sin" is used one time by Paul. "Now we beseech you, brethren, touching the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our gathering together unto him; to the end that you are not quickly shaken from your mind, nor yet be troubled, either by spirit, or by word, or by a letter from us, as that the day of Lord is just at hand; let no man deceive you in any way: for it will not be, except the falling away come first, and THE MAN OF SIN be revealed, the SON OF DESTRUCTION, he that opposes and exalts himself against all that is called God or that is worshiped; so that he sits in the temple of God, setting himself forth as God. Remember you not, that, when I was yet with you, I told you these things? And now you know that which restrains, to the end that he may be revealed in his own time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already working; only there is one that restrains now, until he be taken out of the way. And then shall be revealed THE LAWLESS ONE, whom the Lord Jesus shall slay with the breath of his mouth, AND BRING TO NOTHING by the appearance of His coming; even he, whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceit of unrighteousness for they that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved, and for this cause, God will send them a working of error, that they should believe and lie: that they all might be judged who believes not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness" [2 Thessalonians 2:1-12].

 Paul said, "The mystery of lawlessness is already working"

 He shall be revealed

 At the second coming of Christ the lawless one ("the man of sin" "the son of destruction") "the Lord Jesus shall slay with the breath of his mouth, AND BRING TO NOTHING by the appearance of His coming"

 ONE THING IS SURE, THE MAN OF SIN WILL EXIST BEFORE THE COMING OF CHRIST FOR JUDGMENT, BEFORE THE DAY OF THE LORD BUT ON THE DAY CHRIST COMES THE MAN OF SIN WILL BE BROUGHT TO NOTHING AT THE APPEARANCE OF CHRIST. IT CANNOT BE A PERSON, SATAN, OR A NATION AFTER THE COMING OF CHRIST, THEREFORE, THIS CANNOT BE SPEAKING OF ANYTHING OR ANYONE IN THE MILLENNIUM AFTER THE DAY CHRIST COMES. If there were a Millennium after the coming of Christ, the man of sin, whoever or whatever he or it was, would have been destroyed before the Millennium.

 B. W. Johnson's notes on 2 Thessalonians 2:1-12. "This chapter is written to remove misapprehension on the subject of the Lord's coming. It shows that it might not be expected until certain events have taken place. These are, (1) A falling away, or apostasy; (2) The removal of some power which hindered the manifestation of the man of sin; (3) The manifestation of the man of sin, and following this, the coming of the Lord. He had told them of these things while with them (verse 5), but now writes more fully. He does not seek to show all, but some of the events which will precede Christ's coming. 1, 2. By the coming. Rather, concerning the coming. His importunity is respecting this and "the gathering of the saints." 2. That you be not soon shaken in mind. Be not agitated, or in distress (troubled). Neither by spirit. By some one who says he has a revelation of the Spirit. Nor by word. Nor by one who claims to quote a word or letter from us. It is thought that a forged letter had been circulated to which Paul alludes. In the close of this Epistle he shows how his letters may be known to be genuine. Some suppose, however, that by "letter" he refers to an incorrect interpretation which was placed on his first letter. 3. Except there come a falling away first. An apostasy must precede the Coming. That is, there shall be a general falling away from the purity of the faith. No apostasy of magnitude occurred in the history of the church for centuries, which could answer to Paul's description, but the gradual declension, corruption, and departure from the ancient faith, which was fully developed a few hundred years later, has always been spoken of by Protestant church historians as The Apostasy. There is no good reason for doubting that it is to this the apostle refers. And that man of sin be revealed. He shall be revealed then in connection with the apostasy. The son of perdition. This expression occurs once elsewhere, and is there applied to Judas, an apostate. Here it evidently has a similar application. Some power, once Christian, falls away and becomes opposed to Christ. 4. Who opposes and exalts himself. I shall endeavor in a few words to identify this power. Various explanations have been given, but there is only one power that exhibits all the marks given by Paul. Observe these: (1) The man of sin exalts himself above God. (2) He sits in the temple, that is, in the church, for that is always the sense in which Paul uses the term. He is a church power. (3) He claims powers that only belong to divinity. (4) He shows off signs and lying wonders (verse 9); or, in other words, lays a claim to miraculous powers. Every one of these marks applies to the papacy: (1) Its development was simultaneous with that of the apostasy. (2) Its development was let (hindered) until the pagan Roman empire fell, but was rapid after it was taken out of the way (verse 7). (3) The papacy has set aside divine laws and has made other spiritual laws to bind men, and has claimed divine prerogatives. A newly-elected Pope is adored and styled "Lord God, the Pope." (4) It is in the temple of God, that is, it arose in the church, and still claims to be the "Holy Catholic Church." (5) The claim of Infallibility is "sitting as God in the temple." (6) The papacy has always claimed miraculous powers, and it is a fact well known that it has often worked off lying wonders (verse 9). No fact is better established than that the hierarchy of the church have often deceived by false miracles. Indeed, these have often been detected and explained. 6 to 10. You know now what withholds. They knew because Paul had told them when with them. We have not that advantage, but I believe that he told them that this development could not take place until pagan imperial Rome fell. We know that it did withhold, or prevent it. 7. For the mystery of iniquity. This revelation of the man of sin. It was a mystery, that is, something yet hidden. Does already work. Causes are beginning to work which will lead to it. Only he who now lets. He that hinders must first be taken out of the way. There was no room for an arrogant spiritual power in Rome as long as imperial Rome continued to persecute the church. A persecuted church cannot be a haughty church. Two things were needful before the papal power could be developed; viz., the overthrow of paganism, and the removal of the capital of the Empire from Rome. When these things were done, it was free to seize the old Roman scepter. 8. Then shall that Wicked be revealed. After the hindering power is removed. Whom the Lord shall consume. The Wicked power will be destroyed by the Lord's coming, and will continue to exist, possibly, until that event. 9. Whose coming. That of the Wicked power. Is after the working of Satan. That is, it will deceive men as Satan does. Lying wonders. False miracles. 10. Deceivableness of unrighteousness. Unrighteous delusions which will be accepted by its votaries, them that perish. Those that perish, receive not the love of the truth. They have a disinclination to receive it. 11, 12. For this cause God shall send them strong delusion. Because they do not receive the truth. He who refuses to receive the truth will at last believe lies. It is the law of human nature. God sends the delusion by natural laws. 12. Be damned. Because "they had pleasure in unrighteousness." People's New Testament With Notes," Gospel Light Publishing Company, 1889.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 17

 THE PREMILLENNIAL VIEWS OF "HELL"

 There are only two views that are commonly believed about what will happen to mankind after death. [One] That the soul of all will live forever and cannot die, the soul of the lost must exist somewhere for all the lost have eternal life and are not subject to the wages of sin which is death, or [Two] the wages of sin is death and the lost will die, they do not now have eternal life and never will.

 [One]. The belief that everyone has a soul in them that will live forever and cannot die, therefore, death is not the wages of sin. A person has something in them that cannot die, cannot ever be destroyed. This view has two major divisions.

 (A) That all mankind has a "soul" that cannot ever die or be destroyed, but for most of mankind God will forever torment this part of a person they call "soul."

 (B) Universalism: that all mankind has a "soul" that cannot ever die or be destroyed, everyone has something in them that will live forever but "it" will be saved. If this "soul" ["it"] is not saved in this lifetime, then "it" will be saved after death.

 [Two]. That the wages of sin is death. The lost will die the second death, they will forever be destroyed. Those who do not believe this view gave it the name "annihilation." This name is not in the Bible, but what it means is eternal destruction, nevertheless, I think it best not to call Bible teaching by a name not in the Bible.

 Most Premillennialists believe the lost will be totally destroyed, but there are two views on how or where they will be destroyed.

 Many believe that their distortion will be on this earth and the saved will forever live on this earth; no person will ever be in Heaven. They believe the Valley of Gehenna will be restored and the lost will literally be burn to ashes in it.

 Some Premillennialists believe that the saved will be with Christ in Heaven, not on earth after the thousand years; the second death will be the end of the lost, but not burned them too ashes on this earth.

 But then some Premillennialists believe the lost cannot die and will be forever tormented by God, which puts them in the camp of those that believe death is not the wages of sin.

 Some Premillennialists believe [view one] the wages of sin is eternal life with torment for the soul which cannot die.

 Many Premillennialists believe [view two] the wages of sin is death.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 18

 WELL-KNOWN MILLENNIUM PREDICTIONS THAT FAILED

 Lester Sumerall on page 64 of "Earth's Final Days" said the 20th century was "the end-time century." We are now in the 21st century.

 Hal Lindsey, author of "The Late Great Planet Earth" said, "With world events fitting into the precisely predicted pattern for the return of Jesus Christ, how much more should this terminal generation take to hear the passages of exhortation in the Bible" Page 182 of "The terminal Generation" 1976. At the time of this writing in 2008, thirty-three years has passed and "This generation" has not been terminated. The main point of "The Late Great Planet Earth" in 1970 was the return of Christ was then about to happen in 1970 but it did not happen.

 Ed Hindson, "'Final Signs' is the perfect answer for anyone who wants a clear preview of what God has promised He will be doing the last days." "Final Signs: Amazing Prophecies of the End Times" 1996.

 Jack Van Impe in "The Great Escape" in 1999 said the next event on God's prophetic clock is the Rapture.

 Herbert W. Armstrong: "When we take a hard, cold realistic view of conditions and trends, they do point inevitably to a fast approaching world crisis of combined nuclear war, starvation, uncontrollable disease epidemics, crime an violence and the extinction of human life on this planet." The Wonderful World Of Tomorrow. Many years have passed after this was written.

 William Miller, whose "Second Adventists" later became the "Seventh-Day Adventists" set the date for the coming of Christ and the rapture to be 1843, but when Christ did not come he changed it to 1844.

 John Hagee says, "The generation which sees the rebirth of Israel is the terminal generation" Page 91 of "The Beginning of the End: The Assassination of Yitzhak Rabin and the Coming Antichrist" 1996. Israel became a nation in 1948. That was 60 years age. More than a generation. A generation is about 40 years.

 In "Facing Millennium Midnight: The Y2K Crisis Confronting America and the World" Hal Lindsey and Cliff Ford were totally wrong on the Y2K crisis. There was no "Millennium midnight." Neither did any banks close their doors never to open again nor were there any problems with interstate jams or with the traffic controls. But they sold many books. Before the year 2,000 Winders did not program their PC's for the year 2,000 and after, but Macintosh did. Did they think the world would end for Winders users but not for Macintosh uses?

 Some believed 9/9/1999 was to begin the countdown to Armageddon which was to be at y2k - January 1, 2000, just as there were many predictions just before the year 1000 A. D. that Christ would come then. If the world is still here in 3000 A. D., no doubt thee will be many them.

 Although it is undeniable that the predictions of their best known writers failed, many believe them and rush to buy their next book.

 The battle of Armageddon has ALMOST BEEN FOUGHT MANY TIMES. Every time that is a new war many Millennialists, on both radio and T V, tell the world that this war is the beginning of the war or Armageddon. When it does not come about, the next war that comes alone we are again told the same thing. As when the Millennialists predictions about Russia did not come about and had to be updated, Millennialists are required to always be updating.

 NO UNITED STATES BY FALL OF 2008: On page 244 of "2008 God's Final Witness" (written in the year 2006) Ronald Weinland said there will be a maximum time of two years remaining before the world will be plunged into the worst time of all human history; and by the fall of 2008, the United States would have collapsed as a world power, or the United States would have begun its collapse and will no longer exist as an independent nation within six months. THE TWO YEARS HAS PASSED, and they were not even near being the worst time in all human history and the United States still exist.

 ALTHOUGH THE MILLENNIAL PROPHECIES HAVE REPEATEDLY FAILED, THE SAME PROPHECIES HAVE BEEN REPEATED AND ARE STILL BEING REPEATED IN MILLENNIAL BOOKS. ALMOST THE ONLY CHANGE IS THE DATE THE RAPTURE WILL BEGIN WHICH HAS BEEN SET AND FAILED REPEATEDLY OR THE WAR THAT IS TO BE THE BEGINNING OF THE END. IT WAS WORLD WAR ONE, THEN TWO, THEN THIS WAR, THAN THAT WAR. THE NEXT NEW BOOK WILL SAY IT IS THE WAR THAT IS GOING ON AT THAT TIME, THEN A LATER BOOK WILL SAY ANOTHER WAR. WHEN ONE DATE IS SET AND COMES AND GOES, THE NEXT BOOK WILL SET ANOTHER DATE. etc. etc. etc. From the first printing of the Scofield Bible unto now, there has been one interpretation of prophecy after another that has proven by time to be wrong, yet the interpretations keep coming. "There are now in circulation many books dealing with Bible subjects, whose authors deem themselves to be such high 'authorities' that they habitually make assertions of the most radical sort without citing in support thereof any proof whatever." "Every expositor of recent times, who has a scheme of interpretation of Daniel's prophecies to advocate, inevitably and blandly cites the words 'the wise shall understand' as if they constituted a convincing proof of the correctness of his own scheme. For he takes 'the time of the end' to mean the end of our own dispensation (as if it were the only era that had an 'end') and then he further takes it for granted that he is one of 'the wise' to whom it has been specially given to 'understand' these previously hidden things. But, we are persuaded that much which passes nowadays as an 'understanding' of these matters, is but a misunderstanding after all; and that some who esteem themselves 'wise' in regard thereto are quite otherwise." Philip Mauro, "The Seventy Weeks and the Great Tribulation" 1921.

 "But there arose false prophets also among the people, AS AMONG YOU ALSO THERE SHALL BE FALSE TEACHERS, WHO SHALL PRIVILY BRING IN DESTRUCTIVE HERESIES, DENYING EVEN THE MASTER THAT BOUGHT THEM, BRINGING UPON THEMSELVES SWIFT DESTRUCTION" [2 Peter 2:1].

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 19

 THE THRONE OF DAVID

 Premillennialists teaching is that Christ came to establish the kingdom of heaven on the throne of David in Jerusalem and Israel was to rule the world, but because of His rejection by the Jews, He failed and went to heaven and plans to return and try again to set up an earthly kingdom. Because Jesus failed to set up the throne of David, He had to make a substitution and sit on the throne of God. If there were two thrones, would not the throne of God be much better then the throne of David? Do they not have Christ taking a large step down from the throne of God to the throne of David? He now has "All authority...in heaven and on earth" [Matthew 28:18], and He now upholds all things by the word of His power [Hebrews 1:3]. Do they make Christ to be less then He now is? Is not the New Covenant, which according to them is only a temporary unplanned substitution but bought with the blood of Christ greater than the Old Covenant and the blood of animals? Is God's temporary unplanned substitution of the New Covenant greater then what was planned by God?

 The Jews were looking for the Christ to establish an earthly kingdom and a restoring of the throne of David, and they rejected Christ and crucified Him for not establishing the kind of kingdom they wanted Him to establish.

 Millennialists teach that Christ came to establish an earthly kingdom and restore the throne of David. They teach the same materialistic view of the kingdom that the Jews believed.

 Part one: The Jewish earthly kingdom of Israel

 Part two: The Millennium earthly kingdom of Israel

 PART ONE: The throne of David - The earthly Kingdom of the Jews they were looking for.

 WHY DID ISRAEL REJECT CHRIST? BECAUSE HE DID NOT ESTABLISH A TEMPORAL KINGDOM THEY WERE LOOKING FOR, AN EARTHLY KINGDOM WITH CHRIST SETTING ON THE THRONE OF DAVID IN JERUSALEM WITH THE KINGDOM RESTORED TO ISRAEL. "My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence" [John 18:36]. Yet, Millennialists tell us Jesus is going come a second time to do the very thing that He was rejected for not doing the first time He came, that God is going to set up an earthly kingdom with Christ on an earthly throne in Jerusalem. God intended for Christ to set up an earthly kingdom, but Christ failed the first time but will try a second time to set up the kingdom of Israel, a kingdom that will be of this earth.

 In Acts 2:30-36 Peter quotes 2 Samuel 7:12-14 and applied the promise to restore the throne of David to Christ. "When your days are fulfilled, and you shall sleep with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, that shall proceed out of your bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever." Peter applied this to Christ after He had been rejected by the Jews and put to death, but Millennialists tell us that at the time Peter applied it to Christ that God had already postponed the kingdom unto the Millennium.

 This throne and kingdom were to be when David was asleep with his fathers, not after David was resurrected, but Millennialists tell us David will have been resurrected in the Millennium.

 If, as Millennialists teach, all prophecies are to be taken literally and must all be literally fulfilled, then David, not Christ, will be king in the Millennium. Long after the death of David Ezekiel said, "And my servant David shall be king over them; and they shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in my ordinances, and observe my statutes, and do them. And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers dwelled; and they shall dwell therein" [Ezekiel 37:24-25; also Hosea 3:5]. Even though Millennialists say they take all prophecies literally, they do not. Most Millennialists believe David is used in this passage as a type of Christ and not that the literal David was to be the king in the kingdom, but Christ. They inconsistently say that David was not the literal David but the kingdom he was king over was the literal kingdom of Israel.

 PART TWO: The Millennium Kingdom - The Millennialists are looking for the same earthly Kingdom of the Jews that the Jews were looking for. AN EARTHLY KINGDOM WITH CHRIST SETTING ON THE THRONE OF DAVID IN JERUSALEM WITH THE KINGDOM RESTORED TO ISRAEL. They tell us Christ is coming to establish the same earthly kingdom that made Christ be rejected when He came the first time because He taught a difference kind of kingdom; a spiritual kingdom, the church. BOTH JEWS AND MILLENNIALISTS OPPOSE THE VIEW THAT THE KINGDOM IS NOW IN EXISTENCE AND CHRIST IS NOW THE KING OF THE KINGDOM.

 Both say the kingdom has not yet came.

 Both say Christ is not yet on His throne.

 Both say the prophecies of the kingdom has not yet been fulfilled.

 "The burden of all their recorded addresses is just this, that the nation had misunderstood the prophets, and had mistaken the nature of the kingdom which they predicted; that it was in being while they spoke, and not a kingdom of this world...If this be a correct representation of the apostles' addresses to their unbelieving countrymen, it obviously cuts up the Premillennial view of the kingdom of Christ. Nay, it places the premillennialists and the unbelieving Jew in the same category as respects the question in hand, both holding the same error on the subject of the kingdom which the apostles set themselves to overthrow." David Brown, "Christ's Second Coming" Page 127, 1858.

 "THIS IS THAT" -- or -- "THIS IS NOT THAT?" Peter said, "THIS IS THAT which has been spoken through the prophet Joel' [Acts 2:16]. Millennialists tell us, "THIS IS NOT THAT" for God or the prophet Joel did not know about the death and resurrection of Christ. In the first sermon after the resurrection and accession of Christ back to Heaven Peter says, "Brethren, I may say unto you freely of the patriarchy David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us unto this day. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God has sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins HE WOULD SET ONE UPON HIS THRONE; HE FORESEEING THIS SPOKE OF THE RESURRECTION OF THE CHRIST, that neither was he left unto Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus did God raise up, whereof we all are witnesses. Being therefore by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured forth this, which you see and hear. FOR DAVID ASCENDED NOT INTO THE HEAVENS: BUT HE SAID HIMSELF, 'THE LORD SAID UNTO MY LORD, SIT YOU ON MY RIGHT HAND, TILL I MAKE YOUR ENEMIES THE FOOTSTOOL OF YOUR FEET.' LET ALL THE HOUSE OF ISRAEL THEREFORE KNOW ASSUREDLY, THAT GOD HAS MADE HIM BOTH LORD AND CHRIST, this Jesus whom you crucified" [Acts 2:29-36]. How could Peter have said any clearer that God raised Christ to sit on the throne of David and that Christ is now on that throne? Christ is now King and will "reign till he has put all his enemies under his feet" [1 Corinthians 15:25].

 To try to get around this Millennialists make two thrones. They say the throne Christ is now on is not the throne of David but is only on a temporary unplanned substitution throne which was not foreseen by God or the prophets. If that were true David could not have known anything about the temporary unplanned throne or the resurrection or spoken anything about either, and Peter was wrong when he said both Joel and David spoke of it.

 JAMES ON THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID IN THE PROPHECY OF AMOS 9:11. There rose up certain of sect of the Phasisees who had believed who said it was needful to circumcise the Gentiles who had believed [Acts 15:5]. Paul and Barnabas went up to Jerusalem to the Apostles about this. James says, "Brethren, listen to me, Symeon has rehearsed how first God visited the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name. AND TO THIS AGREE THE WORDS OF THE PROPHETS; AS IT IS WRITTEN, After these things I will return, and I will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up: that the residue of men may seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, says the Lord, who makes these things known from of old" [Acts 15: 13-18]. THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID HAD BEEN REBUILT AT THE TIME JAMES WAS SPEAKING. Christ is now sitting on the throne of David in the tabernacle of David, which is the Church. Peter said, "This is that" [Acts 2:16]. "I will return, and I will build again the tabernacle of David" refers to the Church which existed at that time, to this age; not to the restoring of Israel and rebuilding the earthly temple of the Old Testament in another age that has not come.

 "Millennialists have urged that the words 'after this I will return' are not found in Amos 9:11. James attributed those words to him, and if Amos did not use them, it is an error of the Holy Spirit in James, who said that he did. The fact is, James was quoting the Septuagint version of the old scripture, which was used by Christ and the apostles--which was the Greek translation of the Hebrew scriptures--and it is a fact that the words 'after this I will return' are in the Septuagint text" Foy E. Wallace, Jr., "God's Prophetic Word," Page 372, 1945.

 At the coming of Christ, "Then comes the end, when he shall deliver up the kingdom to God" [1 Corinthians 15:23-24]. Do not the Millennialists say not so Paul, at the coming of Christ will be the beginning, not the end for then He shall establish His kingdom and reign in it for a thousand years? Do they not say the end will not come unto a thousand years after the time Paul said it would come?

 All THE PROMISES TO DAVID ARE NOW FULFILLED

 Christ to be the seed of David [2 Samuel 7:12-14].

 Christ to sit on the throne of David [Isaiah 9:6-7].

 Christ to rebuild the tabernacle of David [Amos 9:11-12].

 Christ to bring the sure blessing of David [Isaiah 55:3].

 Christ to have the key of David [Isaiah 22:22].

 Christ to be a priest on His throne [Zechariah 6:12-13].

 Christ to be the Son of God and God to be His Father [2 Samuel 7:12-14].

 [1] CHRIST IS NOW THE SEED OF DAVID

 "When your days are fulfilled, and you shall sleep with your fathers, I WILL SET UP YOUR SEED AFTER YOU, that shall proceed out of your bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son" [2 Samuel 7:12-14]. Hebrews 1:5 applied this to Christ. "Of this man's seed has God according to promise brought unto Israel a Savior, Jesus" [Acts 13:23]. It is while David was asleep with his fathers that his seed was to be set up. According to most Millennialists David will be resurrected with the rest of the righteous dead when Christ comes at the start of the Millennium or at the Rapture seven years before the Millennium, before they say Israel will be restored, and before they say Christ will be on the throne of David; but Christ was to be on the throne of David when David was asleep with his fathers, therefore, before the resurrection of David.

 [2]. CHRIST IS NOW SITING ON THE THRONE OF DAVID

 "Brethren, I may say unto you freely of the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us unto this day. Being therefore, a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins he would set one upon his throne; HE FORESEEING THIS STAKE OF THE RESURRECTION OF THE CHRIST" [Acts 2:29-31]. Not only is Peter saying Christ is on David's throne at that time, but also that God foresaw the rejection, death, and resurrection of Christ. Christ was to be on David's throne ONLY after His rejection and resurrection. "But of the Son he says 'Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom'" [Hebrews 1:8].

 What was Peter's argument in Acts 2? That Christ is now on David's throne.

 David had said God would rise up one to sit on his throne.

 Christ had been raised and exalted.

 David had not ascended to Heaven. "Brethren, I may say unto you freely of the patriarch David, that he both died and were buried, and his tomb is with us unto this day. Being therefore, a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins he would set one upon his throne; he foreseeing this spoke of the resurrection of the Christ...Being therefore by the right hand of God exalted."

 Peter's conclusion: Christ is now at the right hand of God on David's throne.

 The Premillennialists argument that Christ is not on David's throne and will not be unto after His second coming makes Peter's argument void and useless. Peter's argument is that Christ is now sitting on David's throne while David is still in the grave, not as many Premillennialists teach, that Christ will not be sitting on David's throne unto after the resurrection of the righteous, not unto after the resurrection of David.

 DAVID FOREKNOW THAT CHRIST WAS TO SIT ON HIS THRONE AFTER HIS REJECTION, DEATH AND RESURRECTION, NOT AS MILLENNIALISTS TEACH THAT IT WAS GOD'S PLAIN TO RESTORE ISRAEL AND CHRIST WAS TO SIT ON DAVID'S THRONE, BUT CHRIST WAS REJECTED AND PUT TO DEATH BY ISRAEL AND GOD HAD TO CHANGE HIS PLAIN. MILLENNIALISTS NOW SAY GOD'S NEW SUBSTITUTE PLAIN IS FOR CHRIST NOT TO SIT ON DAVID'S THRONE UNTO THE MILLENNIUM.

 While David was asleep with his fathers, Christ (David's seed) was to reign on David's throne. "When your days are complete and you lie down with your fathers, I will rise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for My name, and I will establish his kingdom forever. I will be a father to him, and he will be a son to Me...And your house and your kingdom shall endure before Me forever; your throne shall be established forever" [2 Samuel 7:12-16]. HE IS TO BE ON DAVID'S THRONE WHEN DAVID WAS ASLEEP, BUT ACCORDING TO MILLENNIALISTS, DAVID WILL NOT BE ASLEEP IN THE MILLENNIUM, FOR THEY SAY DAVID AND ALL THE OLD TESTAMENT SAINT WILL BE RESURRECTED IN THE FIRST RESURRECTION AT THE BEGINNING OF THE MILLENNIUM.

 "And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name Him Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give Him the throne of His father David; and He will reign over the house of Jacob forever; and His kingdom will have no end" [Luke 1:31-33]. Premillennialists sometimes make a distinction and say the throne the Lord is now on is not the throne of David. In two parallel passages that are describing the same throne says,

 "And Solomon sat on the THRONE OF DAVID" [1 Kings 2:12].

 "Then Solomon sat on the THRONE OF THE LORD" [1 Chronicles 29:23].

 There is only one throne and there is no distinction. CHRIST IS NOW ON THE THRONE OF DAVID.

 Isaiah 9:6-7 "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there shall be no end, UPON THE THRONE OF DAVID, AND UPON HIS KINGDOM, to establish it, and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from henceforth even for ever." The angel Gabriel told Mary, "Fear not, Mary: for you have found favor with God. And behold, you shall conceive in your womb, and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Most High: and the Lord God shall give unto him THE THRONE OF HIS FATHER DAVID: and he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever: and of his kingdom there shall be no end" [Luke 1:30-33].

 "And we bring you good news of the promise made unto the fathers, that God has fulfilled the same unto our children, in that he raised up Jesus; as also it is written in the second Psalm, You are my Son, this day have I begotten you. And as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he has spoken on this wise, I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David. Because he says also in another Psalm, You will not give Your Holy One to see corruption. For David, after he had in his own generation served the counsel of God, fell asleep, and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption: but he whom God raised up saw no corruption. Be it known unto you therefore, brethren, that through this man is proclaimed unto you remission of sins" [Acts 13:32-38]. In this passage Paul used three quotations that Millennialists apply to the Millennium. PAUL APPLIED ALL THREE TO CHRIST NOW IN THIS DISPENSATION.

 "I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord: He said to Me, You are My Son, today I have begotten You" [Psalms 2:7].

 "Incline your ear and come to Me. Listen, that you may live; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, according to the sure blessings of David" [Isaiah 55:3].

 "Neither will You suffer Your holy one to see corruption" [Psalms 16:10].

 [3] THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID HAS NOW BEEN REBUILT [Isaiah 55:3]

 "He shall build a house for my name" [2 Samuel 7:12-14]. "And he shall build the temple of Jehovah; even he shall build the temple of Jehovah" [Zechariah 6:12-13], The Millennialists tell us the temple has not been built, that it is to be built when Christ sets up the kingdom in Israel. Paul clearly says Christ has built the temple. "Jesus himself being the chief corner stone: in whom each several building, fitly framed together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord: in whom you also are build together for a habitation of God in the Spirit" [Ephesians 2:20-22]. "Know you not that you are a temple of God, and that the spirit of God dwells in you? If any man destroys the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, and such are you" [1 Corinthians 2:16-17].

 "IN THAT DAY WILL I RISE UP THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID THAT IS FALLEN, and close up the breaches thereof: and I will rise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old; that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations that are called by my name, says Jehovah" [Amos 9:11]. James says it has NOW been rebuilt. THIS WAS FULFILLED IN CHRIST WHEN HE RAISED UP THE CHURCH, which is now the Tabernacle of David. "And all the multitude kept silence; and they hearkened unto Barnabas and Paul rehearsing what signs and wonders God had wrought AMONG THE GENTILES through them. Brethren, hearken unto me: Symeon has rehearsed how first GOD VISITED THE GENTILES, TO TAKE OUT OF THEM A PEOPLE FOR HIS NAME. And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written, After these things I will return, AND I WILL BUILD AGAIN THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID, WHICH IS FALLEN; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up: THAT THE RESIDUE OF MEN MAY SEEK AFTER THE LORD, AND ALL THE GENTILES, UPON WHOM MY NAME IS CALLED, says the Lord, who makes these things known from of old. Wherefore my judgment is, that we trouble not them that from among the Gentiles turn to God" [Acts 15:12-18]. James says THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID HAD BEEN REBUILT AND THE RESIDUE OF MEN AND THE GENTILES WERE SEEKING AFTER THE LORD, not that it will be rebuilt at a later time.

 [4] WE NOW HAVE THE EVERLASTING COVENANT,

 THE SURE MERCIES OF DAVID [Amos 9:11-12]

 "I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David" [Isaiah 55:3]. Millennialists use this passage to prove that God will restore the Israel, and that God will restore the Old Covenant, not make an everlasting covenant. It would take a large book to go into all that is in the New Testament that shows the New Covenant is better then the Old Covenant and the priesthood of Christ is better than the priesthood of the Old Covenant, yet Millennialists wish to go back to the old. It seems to me that Premillennial doctrine is nothing more that a way to make many reject the deity and death of Christ and the New Covenant without them knowing they are doing it.

 [5]. CHRIST NOW HAS THE KEY OF DAVID [Isaiah 22:22]

 "And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder; and he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open" [Isaiah 22:22]. "He who is holy, who is true, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one opens" [Revelations 3:7]. Jesus quotes Isaiah 22:22 and says He NOW HAS THE KEY OF DAVID, NOT WILL HAVE IT IN THE MILLENNIUM.

 [6]. CHRIST IS NOW PRIEST ON HIS THRONE

 Psalms 110 is one of the most often used passages by the Millennialists. "Jehovah said unto my Lord, Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool. Jehovah will send forth the rod of your strength out of Zion: rule you in the midst of your enemies. Your people offer themselves willingly in the day of your power, in holy array: Out of the womb of the morning you have the dew of your youth. Jehovah has sworn, and will not repent: You are a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek."

 Hebrews 7:17 quarts Psalms 110:4, "For it is witnessed of him, You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek."

 Psalms 110:4 is also applied to Christ in Hebrews 5:6, "As he says also in another place, You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek."

 "Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, saying, Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: and he shall grow up out of his place; and he shall build the temple of Jehovah; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; AND HE SHALL BE A PRIEST UPON HIS THRONE; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both" [Zechariah 6:12-13]. "Jehovah said unto my Lord, SET YOU AT MY RIGHT HAND, UNTIL I MAKE YOUR ENEMIES YOUR FOOTSTOOL...Jehovah has sworn, and will not repent; You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek" [Psalms 110:1-4]. According to the Premillennial theory, Christ did not sit on His throne but is now sitting on the throne of God unto the time for Him to restore the kingdom of David and sit on His throne, that the throne of God and the throne of David and Christ is not the same throne. That because of the unforeseen rejection of Christ, He did not set up His throne as planned by God. IF THIS WERE TRUE, HOW COULD DAVID HAVE KNOWN CHRIST WOULD GO BACK TO HEAVEN AND SIT ON THE THRONE OF GOD AND NOT HAVE SAT ON HIS OWN THRONE AS PLANNED? GOD COULD NOT HAVE SAID TO CHRIST, "SIT YOU AT MY RIGHT HAND, UNTIL I MAKE YOUR ENEMIES YOUR FOOTSTOOL" FOR ACCORDING TO THE THEORY OF SOME PREMILLENNIALISTS, AT THE TIME THIS WAS SAID [Psalms 110:1-4], GOD WOULD HAVE THOUGHT CHRIST WAS GOING TO BE SITTING ON THE THRONE OF DAVID ON THIS EARTH. Premillennialists make God not be God.

 Christ is both to rule on His throne and be a priest on His throne. "Having then a great high priest, who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession. For we have not a high priest that cannot be touched with the felling of our infirmities" [Hebrews 4:14].

 "Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are those who offer the gifts according to the law; who serve that which is a copy and shadow of the heavenly things" [Hebrews 8:4-5]. If Christ had set up a kingdom on this earth and was now on the throne of David, He would not be our priest and could not make intercessions for us [Hebrews 7:25].

 HE IS NOW BOTH SITING ON HIS THRONE AND IS A PRIEST ON HIS THRONE. IF HE WERE ON EARTH, AS THE MILLENNIALISTS TELL US IT WAS GOD'S PLAIN FOR CHRIST TO NOW BE ON EARTH ON THE THRONE OF DAVID, THEN HE COULD NOT BE A PRIEST ON HIS THRONE. IF CHRIST HAD SET UP AN EARTHLY KINGDOM, AS THE MILLENNIALISTS TELL US IT WAS GOD'S PLAIN THAT FAILED, HE COULD NOT BE OUR PRIEST. How could it have been foretold when, according to Millennialists, not even God knew that Christ would be rejected?

 [7]. GOD IS NOW HIS FATHER AND HE IS NOW GOD'S SON

 David was told, "When your days are fulfilled, and you shall sleep with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, that shall proceed out of your bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever, I will be his father, and he shall be my son" [2 Samuel 7:12-14].

 "I will be his father, and he shall be my son" [2 Samuel 7:12-14- Hebrews 1:5]. No Millennialists that I know of deny this part of the prophecy TO BE NOW, not even those who say Christ had no preexistence before His birth, but they must break the prophecy into parts and say one part of it has not been fulfilled and one part of it has. They say:

 PART ONE THAT HAS NOT BEEN FULFILLED: "I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever."

 PART TWO THAT HAS NOW BEEN FULFILLED: "I will be his father, and he shall be my son" [2 Samuel 7:13-14].

 [8]. NO ONE CAN NOW TRACE HIS OR HER LINEAGE TO DAVID OR TO THE TRIBE OF DAVID. NO ONE CAN NOW TRACE HIS LINEAGE TO THE TRIBE OF LEVI. No one qualifies for the throne of David, and no one qualifies to be a priest, therefore, the earthly kingdom of Israel or the Law cannot be restored.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 20

 IS THE GOSPEL "THE POWER OF GOD TO SALVATION"?

 Premillennialists say the conversion of the world is not to be by the Gospel, not by teaching the Bible, not by sending Missionary; but it is to be entirely by a NEW WAY.

 Jso. Tyso says, "The scriptures do state the design of the Gospel, and what it is to effect; but they never say it is to convert the world. Its powers have been tried for eighteen hundred years, and it has never yet truly converted one nation, one city, one town, not even a single village. Yet some Christians are vainly supposing that it will, by a gradual and accelerated progression, convert the world...THE SCRIPTURES NEVER STATE THAT THE GOSPEL, OR CHRISTIAN ECONOMY, WILL BE THE MEANS OF CONVERTING THE WORLD...That the world is to be converted is evident from many Scriptures; but they ascribe it principally to other causes, and not, as our opponents will have, entirely to the preaching of the Gospel. In all cases the Jews will have a pre-eminence." Present Dispensation--Its Course, Number two in a series on Prophecy.

 Dr M'Neile says, "The more common opinion is, that this is the final dispensation, and that by a more copious outpouring of the Holy Spirit it will magnify its self, and swell into the universal blessedness predicted by the prophets, carrying with it Jews and Gentiles, even the whole world, in one glorious flock under on Shepherd, Jesus Christ the Lord. This is reiterated from pulpit, press, and platform. It is the usual climax of missionary exhortation, of rather missionary prophecy." Lectures on the Prophecies relative to the Jewish Nation, page 72, 1830.

 That we are to take the Gospel into all nations and make disciples in them and baptizing them that believes is taught in Matthew 28:19-20 and other passages, but nowhere is it said that "nations" will ever be converted; not Israel or any other nation, only individuals that believe and are baptized. Paul says, "for I am not ashamed of the gospel: FOR IT IS THE POWER OF GOD UNTO SALVATION TO EVERYONE THAT BELIEVES; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is revealed a righteousness of God" [Romans 1:16]. But, Millennialists have rewritten the Bible to say the world will be converted by Christ in person by restoring the Old Testament Law in the Millennium, and all the nations will be converted, yet the Millennium ends with Christ holding up in one city, Jerusalem, with Satan and ALL THE NATIONS MILLENNIALISTS SAY WOULD HAVE BEEN CONVERTED BY CHRIST MAKING WAS ON CHRIST AND ALL BUT OVERCOMING HIM, AND GOD HAS TO SAVE HIM.

 Even though Millennialists teach Satan and the nations of the world will make war on Christ, they often use the parable of the tares [Matthew 13:24-30] to teach that the Millennium will be an "unmixed economy without any evil" and in it "There shall be no sin, all the inhabitants of the earth shall be holy."

 "On the parable of the tares we would submit the following remarks: 1. It spans the whole economy under which we are now living. It commences with the personal ministry on earth; it closes with his personal coming to judgment at the end of the world. It is therefore, a brief extract, a kind of miniature view, of all that lies between these two extreme limits--between the first and second coming of our Lord. 2. Between these two extreme limits we find no trace nor hint of any millennium. After and beyond the second coming of the Son of Man, and is gathering out of his kingdom 'all things that offend, and casting them into a furnace of fire,' we do find some notice of that blessed state." Kenndy, Number 2 of a series on Prophecy.

 Nothing could be any clearer that there is an absolute and final separation of the tares and the wheat AT THE HARVEST. In the parable the tares are bundled to burn before the wheat is gathered into His barn.

 Millennialists must make the wheat be in His barn only a thousand years on earth.

 The tares that was burned must come back from the ashes or most all the wheat must become tares at the end of the thousand years for there to be nations to make war on Christ in Jerusalem. The Millennium "unmixed economy without any evil" must become mostly evil after all the evil was bundled and burn at its beginning. ARE MOST THAT LIVE IN THE MILLENNIUM TO BECOME TARES AND BE BURNED AT ITS END?

 It is clear that in the parable the final state of both the tares and the wheat are forever fixed at the same time, at the harvest, which is the coming of Christ, and the final state of neither the tares or the wheat will not be changed in a thousand years after the harvest.

 Although nothing is said about the tares after being burnt or the wheat after it is gathered into His barn, Millennialists somehow find the Millennium in this parable, and a world with no evil that turns into a world full of evil. Their fictional Millennium turns into a total disaster but it sales books.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 21

 ISRAEL, IS IT STILL GOD'S CHOSEN PEOPLE?

 The two-fold promise

 The land and great nation promise (Some divide this into two promises)

 The seed promise

 God's Israel of today

 THE LAND PROMISE - THE PROMISE TO ABRAHAM

 "And He took him outside and said, now look toward the heavens, and count the stars, if you are able to count them. And He said to him, so shall your descendants be" [Genesis 15:5].

 "Now when Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty; walk before Me, and be blameless, and I will establish My covenant between Me and you, and I will multiply you exceedingly. And Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, as for Me, behold, My covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham; for I will make you the father of a multitude of nations" [Genesis 17:1-5].

 "All the land that I will show you" [Genesis 12:1-7]. "Unto your seed have I given this land" [Genesis 15:18]. "And I will give unto you, and to your seed after you, the land of your sojourning, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession" [Genesis 17:8]. Also, Genesis 22:15-18; Genesis 26:1-4; Genesis 28:3-4 and 28:13-14; Exodus 6:4.

 Abraham's descendants went into slavery in Egypt, was delivered by Moses, wandered in the wildness for forty years, them was taken into the promise land by Joshua. See Genesis 24:7; 35:12; 37:1 50:24' Exodus 6:4; 13:5; 13:11; 20:12; 33:1; Leviticus 14:34; 20:24; 23:10; 25:2; 25:38; Numbers 14:8; 14:23; 20:12; 21:35; 27:12; 32:5-7; 32:11; 32:22; 32:29; 33:53-54; 35:14 KJV; Deuteronomy 1:8; 3:8 and 3:12; 3:18 and 3:20; 4:1 and 4:5; 4:22; 4:47; 5:33-6:1; 6:18; 6:23; 7:1; 7:13; 8:1; 8:10; 9:6; 4:23-31; 9:23; 9:28; 10:11; 11:8-11; 11:17; 11:29-31; 12:10; 15:4-17; 16:20; 17:14: 18:9; 19:8; 19:14; 25:15-26:9; 27:2-3; 28:24-63; 30:16-20; 31:20-23; 32:47.

 Joshua is the account of the children of Israel going in the taking possession of the land. They did possess the land under the Judges, then under kings, the kingdom was divided. Israel did not keep the conditions of the land promise, and the northern ten tribes were carried away into Assyria captivity in 722-721 B. C. At less some from the ten tries did return and the tribal distinction had not totally disappeared. See Ezra 6:17; Luke 2:36; James 1:1. Judah went into captivity by Babylon in 586 B. C. Israel was carried into captivity time after time and was in captivity to Rome in the time of Christ and the nation of Israel was completely destroyed by Titus in A. D. 70.

 THE LAND PROMISE FULFILLED

 Joshua said the land promise was fulfilled: "So Jehovah give unto Israel ALL THE LAND WHICH HE SWORE TO GIVE UNTO THEIR FATHERS; AND THEY POSSESSED IT, and dwelled therein. And Jehovah give them rest round about, according to all that he swore unto their fathers: the there stood not a man of all their enemies before them: Jehovah delivered all their enemies into their hand. THERE FAILED NOT AUGHT OF ANY GOOD THING WHICH JEHOVAH HAD SPOKEN UNTO THE HOUSE OF ISRAEL; ALL CAME TO PASS" [Joshua 21:43-45]. "NOT ONE THING HAS FAILED of all the good things which Jehovah your God spoke concerning you; ALL ARE COME TO PASS UNTO YOU, NOT ONE THING HAS FAILED THEREOF" [Joshua 23:14].

 Nehemiah also said the land promise was fulfilled: "You are the Lord God, who chose Abram and brought him out from Ur of the Chaldees, and give him the name Abraham. And You did find his heart faithful before You, and did make a covenant with him to give him the land of the Canaanite, of the Hittite and the Amorite, of the Perizzite, the Jebusite, and the Girgashite-to give it to his descendants. And You have fulfilled Your promise, for You are righteous" [Nehemiah 9:7-8].

 "All the land that I will show you" [Genesis 12:1-7]. "Unto your seed have I given this land" [Genesis 15:18]. Also, Genesis 22:15-18; Genesis 26:1-4; Genesis 28:3-4 and 28:13-14; Exodus 6:4.

 "And He brought forth His people with joy, and His chosen with singing, AND HE GAVE THEM THE LANDS OF THE NATIONS" [Psalms 105:43-44].

 "That I may establish the oath which I swore unto your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, AS IT IS THIS DAY" [Jeremiah 11:5].

 "And when He had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, HE GAVE THEM THEIR LAND FOR AN INHERITANCE, for about four hundred and fifty years" [Acts 13:19].

 Millennialists say Joshua and Nehemiah were wrong. It has not been fulfilled; God has not fulfilled His promise and they have not possessed the land He swore to give them, therefore, God must restore Israel and give them the land in the Millennium, then they must dwell in it on this earth forever; furthermore, Peter was also wrong when he said, "But the day of the Lord will come as a thief; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall be dissolved with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are therein shall be burned up" [2 Peter 3:10], for if God destroyed the earth Israel could not dwell in the land forever. Who are you going to believe? They repudiate their argument that God shall literally fulfill the land promise by saying this earth and heavens will be burned up, and a new heavens and new earth will come down from Heaven. Abraham was told, to go "To the land which I will show you" [Genesis 12:1-7], then told, "Unto your seed have I given this land" [Genesis 15:18], "And I will give unto you, and to your seed after you, the land of your sojourning, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession" [Genesis 17:8]. They say God literally said He would give them the land of Canaan, but then repudiate it and say, "No, God is going to burn up the land of Canaan He promised them and bring a new land (a new heaven and earth) down out of Heaven and give to them."

 KEEPING THE LAND WAS CONDITIONAL

 MOSES: "But it shall come about, if you will not obey the Lord your God, to observe to do all His commandments and statutes with which I charge you today, that all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you...The Lord will make the pestilence cling to you UNTIL HE HAS CONSUMED YOU FROM THE LAND, WHERE YOU ARE ENTERING TO POSSESS" [Deuteronomy 28:15-21].

 "And it shall be, when Jehovah your God shall bring you into the land which He swore unto your fathers...You shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the peoples that are round about you...lest the anger of Jehovah your God be kindled against you, and HE DESTROY YOU FROM OFF THE FACE OF THE EARTH" [Deuteronomy 6:10-15].

 "And it shall be, if you shall forget Jehovah your God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you this day that YOU SHALL SURELY PERISH. AS THE NATIONS THAT JEHOVAH MADE TO PERISH BEFORE YOU, SO SHALL YOU PERISH" [Deuteronomy 8:19-20].

 JOSHUA: "Take good heed therefore unto yourselves, that you love Jehovah your God. Else if you do at all go back, and cleave unto the remnant of these nations, even these that remain among you, and intermarry with them, and go in unto them, and they to you; know for a certainty that Jehovah your God will no more drive these nations from out of your sight; but they shall be a snare and a trap unto you, and a scourge in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, UNTIL YOU PERISH FROM OFF THIS GOOD LAND WHICH JEHOVAH YOUR GOD HAS GIVEN YOU. And, behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth: and you know in all your hearts and in all your souls that NOT ONE THING HAS FAILED OF ALL THE GOOD THINGS WHICH JEHOVAH YOUR GOD SPOKE CONCERNING YOU; ALL ARE COME TO PASS UNTO YOU, NOT ONE THING HAS FAILED THEREOF. AND IT SHALL COME TO PASS THAT AS ALL THE GOOD THINGS ARE COME UPON YOU OF WHICH JEHOVAH YOUR GOD SPOKE UNTO YOU, SO WILL JEHOVAH BRING UPON YOU ALL THE EVIL THINGS, UNTIL HE HAS DESTROYED YOU FROM OFF THIS GOOD LAND WHICH JEHOVAH YOUR GOD HAS GIVEN YOU. When you transgress the covenant of Jehovah your God, which he commanded you, and go and serve other gods, and bow down yourselves to them; then will the anger of Jehovah be kindled against you, AND YOU SHALL PERISH QUICKLY FROM OFF THE GOOD LAND WHICH HE HAS GIVEN UNTO YOU" [Joshua 23:12-16]. Just as sure as God kept His promise and give them ALL the land, He would remove them from the land if they were unfaithful. THEY COULD NOT PERISH OFF THE LAND IF THEY NEVER WERE ON IT. They did lose much of the land, and David recovered it [2 Samuel 8:3]. Solomon ruled over it all the days of his life [1 Kings 4:21]. God performed His words and gave the land unto Abraham's seed [Nehemiah 9:7-8]. Also, Jeremiah 18:1-10; 19:10-11.

 JEREMIAH'S PROPHECY: He plainly says Israel would be a broken potter's vessel "that cannot be made whole again" [Jeremiah 19:1-15]. Jeremiah used the valley of Gehenna to warn Israel of their destruction as a nation, and Christ also used the valley of Gehenna to warn Israel of their destruction as a nation.

 The Premillennial theory that the land promise to Abraham has not been fulfilled and that Abraham must be raised from the dead and live on this earth for the promise to be fulfilled is without any truth. The Premillennial theology depends upon the promise of the land to Abraham not having been fulfilled and keeping the land being unconditional. For the millennium to be possible, God must restore Israel no matter what sins they are guilty of, even killing their savior. The land promise to Abraham must be both unfulfilled and unconditional. It was fulfilled, and it was not unconditional. They emphasize that it is called an "everlasting (olam-age) covenant," and "everlasting (olam-age) possession," [Genesis 17:7-10] that the "church age" will end at the millennium and Israel and the Law of Moses restored for eternity with Christ on David's throne. According to them, Israel must forever possess the land on this earth that was promised to Abraham, therefore, Israel cannot go to Heaven; they must for all eternity be on this earth; then say, "no not on this earth, not dwell in the land that was promised to Abraham, but dwell in a new land on a new earth that will come down out of Heaven."

 The "FOREVER" (olam-age) of the King James Version. An age, a time that could be only three days or a lifetime, but never "eternity" the way it is used today. Some things that are "everlasting" or "forever" in the King James Version that were not eternal.

 A SLAVE WAS A SLAVE "FOREVER" (olam-age) [Exodus 21:6; Deuteronomy 15:17] Forever [olam] lasted only to the end of his life.

 JEWS WERE TO POSSES THE LAND "FOREVER" (olam-age) [Genesis 13:15].

 JONAH'S "EVERLASTING" (olam-age) lasted only three days [Jonah 2:6].

 SACRIFICES WERE "FOREVER" (olam-age) [Leviticus 3:17; 6:18; 7:36; 10:9-15; 16:29; 17:17; 23:14: 24:3; Numbers 10:8; 15:15: 18:8; 19:10].

 CIRCUMCISION WAS "FOREVER" (olam-age) [Genesis 17:13].

 DAVID'S THRONE WAS "FOREVER" (olam-age). [2 Samuel 7:12-13; 1 Kings 9:5].

 When premillennialists say all scripture must be taken literally, and the land is to be given "forever" they must also take 2 Peter 3:10 literally which says, "The earth...shall be burned up." What is to happen to the land when the earth is literally burnt up?

 THE SEED PROMISE [CHRIST]

 "And in your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed" [Genesis 22:18].

 "Now to Abraham were the promises spoken, and to his seed. He says not, and to seeds, as of many; but as of one, and to your seed, which is Christ" [Galatians 3:16].

 "When your days are complete and you lie down with your fathers, I will rise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for My name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever" [2 Samuel 7:12-13]. The seed was to come when Abraham was asleep with his fathers, not when he was living and not after he had been resurrected, therefore, not after the second coming of Christ, not in a Millennium after the coming of Christ.

 "For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us: and the government will rest on His shoulders; and His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of His government or of peace, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness From then on and forevermore" [Isaiah 9:6-7].

 "In you (Abraham) all the families of the earth shall be blessed" [Genesis 22:18]. "And in your (Isaac) seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed" [Genesis 26:4]. "And in your (Jacob) seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed" [Genesis 28:14]. "The scepter shall not depart from Judah, not the ruler's staff from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the obedience to the peoples be" [Genesis 49:10]. "And your (David's) house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before you: your throne shall be established forever" [2 Samuel 7:16].

 THE SEED PROMISE FULFILLED IN CHRIST: "Now to Abraham were the promises spoken, and to his seed. He says not, 'And to seeds,' as of many; but as of one, 'And to your seed,' which is Christ" [Galatians 3:16]. The blessing is redemption for people of all nations, Jews and Gentiles [Luke 19:10].

 TO THE JEWS FIRST: "Yea and ALL THE PROPHETS FROM SAMUEL AND THEM THAT FOLLOWED AFTER, AS MANY AS HAVE SPOKEN, THEY ALSO TOLD OF THESE DAYS. You are the sons of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with your fathers, saying unto Abraham, 'And in your seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Unto you first God, having raised up his Servant, sent him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from your iniquities" [Acts 3:24-26].

 THEN TO ALL NATIONS: "And the scripture, FORESEEING that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, PREACH THE GOSPEL BEFOREHAND UNTO ABRAHAM, SAYING 'IN YOU SHALL ALL THE NATIONS BE BLESSED'" [Galatians 3:8]. Years later, Paul still did not know that the promise to Abraham had been postponed to the second coming of Christ. Not only did he not know, he thought the Gospel being preached to the Gentiles was the fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham. Again, the Premillennialists tell us that God did not know the Jews were going to reject Christ as their King, and the kingdom was postponed, therefore, Paul could not have been speaking by inspiration when he said, "And the scripture, FORESEEING" for according to Millennialists teaching, not even God foresaw it.

 GOD'S ISRAEL TODAY

 Galatians 3:7-8 "Know therefore, that they that are of faith, the same are sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand unto Abraham, saying, in thee shall all the nations be blessed. So then that are of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham." "And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's seed, heirs according to promise" [Galatians 3:29].

 "The kingdom of God shall be taken away from you (not postponed and given to you in the Millennium when the Old Testament Law will be restored) and shall be given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof." [Matthew 21:43. See Matthew 8:11-12; Luke 8:28' Acts 8:46; Romans 9:3-5; Galatians 3:14; 4:28; Philippians 3:3; Romans 2:28-29; 11:7; Ephesians 212-13]. Israel is not now in covenant relationship with God. The Church is now the "sons of Abraham" [Galatians 3:7]. Israel has been "broken off" or "cast off" [Romans 11]. THE CHURCH IS NOW "THE ISRAEL OF GOD" [Galatians 6:16].

 The parable of the rich man and Lazarus is an allegory of the Jews who were rich in God's blessing. Israel was spiritually rich [see Romans 9:3-5]. All Luke 16 is on the subject of stewardship. The Jews failed to share with the Gentiles giving them only the crumb, and most of the Jews failed to believe in Christ. The Gentiles were spiritually poor. This parable is a satire condemning the Jewish nation, the Scribes, and Pharisees. Christ used one of their own fables, which those He were speaking to would know about (see Josephus and others), which He changed only slightly as the base of this parable to show the end of the Jewish nation as God's chosen people. See Matthew 21:43-45; 24:2; Luke 13:28; Matthew 23:1-39. Throughout much of the Old Testament, Israel did not obey God and rejected Christ, therefore, was rejected by God. They are no longer His chosen people. Their torment was being without God and rejected by Him, and as a nation Israel is dead and in hades, the grave. As long as they reject Christ, there is no comfort for them, no water to cool their tongue [Luke 16:24]. In the parable Lazarus is the Gentiles, the people in spiritual poverty who had only the crumbs of God's blessing (see Matthew 15:21-26), but become the seed of Abraham-the church. Lazarus (the Gentiles) becomes rich in God's blessing by the Gospel. Christ says, "The kingdom of God shall be taken away from you, and shall be given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof" [Matthew 21:43]. "That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ" [Galatians 3:14]. See Matthew 8:11-12; Luke 8:28' Acts 8:46; 26:23; Romans 2:29; 9:3-5; 3:26-29; 4:28; Philippians 3:3; Romans 2:28-29; 11:7; Ephesians 2:12-13. IN THE PARABLE LAZARUS (THE CHURCH) IS NOW IN ABRAHAM'S BOSOM WHERE THE JEWS ONCE WERE. "Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are children of promise" [Galatians 4:28]. "For we are the circumcision, who worship by the spirit of God" [Philippians 3:3]. "For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh: but he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart" [Romans 2:29]. "So then they that are of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham: [Galatians 3:9]."If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise" [Galatians 3:29]. Paul calls the church "the Israel of God" [Galatians 6:16]. Galatians 3:6-22; Romans 9:8. The blessing of Abraham came to the Gentiles through the Church. Israel does not now by birth have the blessing of Abraham, therefore are "in anguish, and sees Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom." Israel is not now in covenant relationship with God. It is the Church that now is the "sons of Abraham" [Galatians 3:7]. Israel has been "broken off" or "cast off" [Romans 11]. THE CHURCH IS NOW "THE ISRAEL OF GOD" [Galatians 6:16].

 Romans 9:6-33 "But it is not as though the word of God came to naught. FOR THEY ARE NOT ALL ISRAEL, THAT ARE OF ISRAEL: NEITHER, BECAUSE THEY ARE ABRAHAM'S SEED, ARE THEY ALL CHILDREN; BUT, IN ISRAEL SHALL YOUR SEED BE CALLED. THAT IS, IT IS NOT THE CHILDREN OF THE FLESH THAT ARE CHILDREN OF GOD; BUT THE CHILDREN OF THE PROMISE ARE RECKONED FOR A SEED... What if God, willing to show his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering vessels of wrath fitted unto destruction: and that he might make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he afore prepared unto glory, even us, whom he also called, not from the Jews only, but also from the gentiles?...What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, who followed not after righteousness, attained to righteousness, even the righteousness, which is of faith: but Israel, following after a law of righteousness, did not arrive at that law. Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as though it were by works. They stumbled at the stone of stumbling: even as it is written, Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense: and he that believes on him shall not be put to shame" The kingdom of Heaven was not to be a national kingdom as the Jews were looking for. A nation cannot accept or reject Christ. He must be accepted by an individual obeying the Gospel. A nation cannot obey the Gospel.

 Ephesians 2:11-22 "Wherefore, remember that once you, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called Uncircumcision by that which is called Circumcision, in the flesh, made by hands (Jews); that you were at that time separate from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But, now in Christ Jesus you that once were far off are made nigh in the blood of Christ. FOR HE IS OUR PEACE, WHO MADE BOTH ONE, AND BRAKE DOWN THE MIDDLE WALL OF PARTITION, HAVING ABOLISHED IN HIS FLESH THE ENMITY, EVEN THE LAW OF COMMANDMENTS CONTAINED IN ORDINANCES; THAT HE MIGHT CREATE IN HIMSELF OF THE TWO ONE NEW MAN, SO MAKING PEACE; AND MIGHT RECONCILE THEM BOTH IN ONE BODY (THE CHURCH) UNTO GOD THROUGH THE CROSS having slain the enmity thereby (the Law): and he came and preached peace to you that were far off (Gentiles), and peace to them that were nigh (Jews): for through him we both have our access in one Spirit unto the Father. So then you (Gentiles) are no more strangers and sojourners, but you are fellow-citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the chief corner stone; in whom each several building, fitly framed together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord; in whom you also are build together for a habitation of God in the Spirit."

 There is "one body" [Ephesians 4:4] which is the church. All, both Jews and Gentiles that are saved are in that "one body." All that are reconciled to God, Jew, Gentile, or any race, are reconciled in the church, the body, by the blood of Christ [Colossians 1:16-22]. "Yet knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ" [Galatians 2:16], yet they tell us the law will be restored, that the church for which Christ died was just an afterthought.

 "O foolish Galatians, who did bewitch you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly set forth crucified? This only would I learn from you, received you the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith? Are you so foolish having began in the Spirit, are you now perfected in the flesh?" [Galatians 3:1-3].

 "Now that no man is justified by the law before God, is evident...Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law" [Galatians 3:10-14]. He redeemed us from the curse of the law by His death, which Millennialists tell us was not planned or knew about by God.

 "What then is the law? It was added because of transgressions, TILL THE SEED SHOULD COME TO WHOM THE PROMISE HAS BEEN MADE" [Galatians 3:19]. "We preached unto you the good news of the promise made unto the fathers, that God has fulfilled the same unto our children, in that He raised up Jesus; as also it is written in the second Psalm, 'You are my son, this day have I begotten you' And as concerning that He raised Him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, He has spoken on this wise, 'I will give you the holy and sure blessing of David,' because He said also in another Psalm, 'You will not give Your Holy One to see corruption.' For David, after he had in his own generation served the counsel of God, fell asleep, and was lain unto his fathers, and saw corruption: but He whom God raised up saw no corruption. Be it known unto you; therefore, brethren that through this man is proclaimed unto the remission of sins: and by Him everyone that believes is justified from all things, from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses" [Acts 13:32-39].

 "How turn you back again to the weak and beggarly rudiments (the law), where unto you desire to be in bondage over again? You observe days, and months, and seasons, and years (according as is taught in the law). I am afraid of you, lest by any means I have bestowed labor upon you in vain" [Galatians 4:9-11].

 "Tell me, you that desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law? For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, one by the handmaid, and one by the free woman. How is it the son of the handmaid is born after the flesh; but the son of the free woman is born through promise. Which things contain an allegory: for these women are two covenants; one from mount Sinai bearing children unto bondage, which is Hagar. Now this Hagar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answers to the Jerusalem that now is: for she is in bondage with her children. But, the Jerusalem that is above is free, which is our mother...Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are children of promise. But, as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit, so also it is now. (The Jews were the first that persecuted the church). How be it what say the scripture? Cast out the handmaid and her son: for the son of the handmaid shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. Wherefore, brethren, we are not children of a handmaid, but of the free woman" [Galatians 4:21-31]. PREMILLENNIALISTS TELL US THAT WE ARE GOING BACK TO THE BEGGARLY RUDIMENTS, BACK TO BONDAGE UNDER THE LAW. THEY WILL CAST OUT THE FREE WOMAN FOR THE HANDMAID. "For freedom did Christ set us free: stand fast there, and be not entangled again in a yoke of bondage" [Galatians 5:1]. YET, THEY SAY WE WILL BE ENTANGLED AGAIN IN A YOKE OF BONDAGE IN THE MILLENNIUM. "You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you are fallen away from grace" [Galatians 5:4].

 "Having blotted out the bond written in ordinances that were against us, which was contrary to us: and he has taken it out of the way, nailing it to the cross" [Colossians 2:14]. ARE THE MILLENNIALISTS GOING TO TAKE THE LAW OFF THE CROSS AND HAVE IT REINSTATED?

 "But now has he (Christ) obtained a ministry the more excellent, by so much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted upon better promises. For if the first covenant had been faultless, then would no place have been sought for a second" [Hebrews 9:6-7]. WILL THE BETTER COVENANT BE DONE AWAY AND THE COVENANT WHICH WAS NOT FAULTLESS BE REINSTATED? Will the perfect covenant purchased with the blood of Christ be replaced with the covenant which only has animal sacrifices and can never make it worshipers perfect [Hebrews 10:1] and makes nothing perfect [Hebrews 7:19]?

 "For the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that draw nigh...For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. Wherefore when he came into the world, he says, sacrifice and offering you would not, but a body you prepared for me..." [Hebrews 10:1-18]. WHY ARE WE TOLD THAT IN THE MILLENNIUM THE SACRIFICES THAT CAN NEVER TAKE WAY SINS WILL BE REINSTATED? My question to them is how do they know they will be reinstated? Why would anyone want sacrifices of bulls and goats when we have the sacrifices of Christ?

 Where is it said Abraham will be resurrected in a bodily form?

 Where is it said Abraham will possess the land of Canaan after his resurrection.

 Where is it said Abraham or anyone will forever live on this earth.

 All these must be proven before the Millennium doctrine can be true.

 BOTH JEW AND GENTILE CAN BE SAVED ONLY BY THE BLOOD OF CHRIST, WHICH PREMILLENNIALISTS TELL US WAS NOT IN GOD'S PLAN, AND NOT FORESEEN BY GOD. THEREFORE, WAS GOD GOING TO SAVE THE JEWS AND THE WORLD WITHOUT THE DEATH OF CHRIST? ACCORDING TO MILLENNIALISTS HE PLANNED TO BUT FAILED.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 Chapter 22

 The Thirteenth Tribe

 Many whom the world believes to be Jews that are now in Israel may not be Jews. According to Curtis Dickinson and Bruce R. Curd, in about 740 A. D. the Khazar (sometimes spelled Chazar) kingdom adopted Judaism. Bruce R. Curd says,

 "Concerning the conversion of the Khazars to Judaism, the Americana says, 'In the 8th century; it's political and religious head, the pious Bulan, as well as the Khazar nobility, abandoned paganism and converted to Judaism...The Khazars are believed to be the ancestors of many Russian and East European Jews' (Volume 16, page 417)."

 "And, the Britannica says.'...the fact itself is...undisputed and unparalleled in the history of central Eurasia' and 'the story of this conversion of the Khazars had a considerable and lasting impact on the western world' (1973, Volume 13, page 329)."

 Now, consider the origin the Ashkenazi people. The Jewish Encyclopedia, volume 2, says of the Ashkenaz, "A people traced back (Gen. 10:3; 1 Chron. 1:6) through Gomer to Noah's son Japheth."

 "Therefore, the Ashkenazi are not Semites, as Semites descended from Shem, not Japheth. And since Abraham came through Shem, and so of Isaac and Jacob, and the 'Deliverer was to come to turn away ungodliness from Jacob' (Romoms 11:26), IT FOLLOWS THAT THE JEWS IN PRESENT DAY ISRAEL CANNOT BE DESCENDANTS OF JACOB, AND ARE NOT, THEREFORE, IN ANY WAY SHAPE OR FORM RELATED TO OLD TESTAMENT ISRAEL," Burce R. Curd, "Dispensational Premillennialism Refuted, Again!" Page 44-45, Sain Publications, 217 E. Jefferson, Pulaski, TN 38478. All who has an interest in the Millennium should read this book.

 Curtis Dickinson says in "Prophecy: Foreboding Of The Future, Or Facts Of The Past?" Page 62 that there is no "race" of Jews. Benjamin H. Freedman, Christian Educational Association estimated that 90 percent of those who are called Jews in 42 countries originated in Europe and was of the kingdom of the Khazars, which was a kingdom that in the 7th century extended over the southern portion of Russia. The Jewish Encyclopedia says the Khazars embraced the Jewish religion in the 7th century, applied the Hebrew alphabet to their own language which became known as "Yiddish," a language that is unrelated to Hebrew but uses the Hebrew alphabet. The religion of the Khazars was the "Talmud," which is still used today by the Jews, not the Hebrew Old Testament. Although the Khazars are not descendants of Abraham, the Khazars make up most of those who are now in "Israel," most of those who are now falsely called Jews.

 The Talmud has two parts. One is the Mishna, which is the text. The other is the Gemara, which is a commentary on the Mishna. The Talmud is not the Old Testament but it is used today in synagogue services as the chief textbook. "Who is a Jew" by the Anti-Defamation League says that the Talmud, not the Old Testament, is where the Jews of today get their rules and practices. Judaism of today is based on the traditions of men [Matthew 15:9], traditions that are taken from the Talmud, not the Old Testament Law.

 The Jews them self makes it clear that they do not accept Christ and they accuses Him of being an impostor. From the first day that the U. N. set it up unto now; the nation that is now called Israel has rejected Christ as an impostor. "He that honors not the Son, honors not the Father that sent Him" [John 5:23]. IT IS UNDENIABLE THAT THOSE WHO NOW CALL THEM SELF ISRAEL ARE BOTH ANTI-CHRIST AND ANTI-CHRISTIAN, THEREFORE ARE IN REBELLION TO BOTH GOD AND CHRIST. THEY DISHONOR BOTH.

 JESUS HIMSELF SAID OF THE JEWS OF HIS DAY THAT WAS THE REAL CHILDREN OF ABRAHAM AFTER THE FLESH, "They (Jews) answered and said unto him, our father is Abraham. Jesus said unto them, If you (Jews) were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham. But now you (Jews) seek to kill me, a man that has told you the truth, which I heard from God: this did not Abraham. You (Jews) do the works of your father (Satan). They said unto him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, even God. Jesus said unto them, If God were your (the Jews) Father, you would love me: for I came forth and am come from God; for neither have I come of myself, but He sent me" [John 8:39-40]; and Christ quotes Isaiah saying to the Jews, "But, in vain do they (Jews) worship me (God), teaching as their (Jews) doctrines the precepts of men" [Matthew 15:9]. Anyone who teaches the same thing that Christ did, even if they used the very words of Christ, would now be labeled as Anti-Jew and a racist by Oprah. It is O. K. if the Jews are anti-Christian and anti-Christ, but it is not O. K. for anyone that is a Christian to be against the belief of anyone; not even those who deny Christ and hate both Christ and Christian and intend to wipe Christians off the face of the earth. Some of the anti-Christ groups that Oprah openly supports on both her show and web-site openly say they intend to destroy both Christians and America which would include her. DOES SHE NOT SAY CHRIST WAS WRONG? YES.

 "...the Jews; who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets...and please not God...the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost" [1 Thessalonians 2:15-16]. This wrath soon destoryed them in A. D. 70.

 Jesus said, "I am THE WAY, AND THE TRUTH, AND THE LIFE: no one comes to the Father, but by me" [John 14:6]. Despite the fact that books that teach otherwise are promoted by Oprah and others, NO ONE CAN COME TO THE FATHER THROUGH ANY CHRIST LESS RELIGION, JEWISH OR ANY OTHER CHRIST LESS RELIGION. No one will have eternal life without the blood of Christ, only endless death.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 "The Thirteenth Tribe, The Khazar Empire and its Heritage" by Arthur Koestler, a well-known Jewish writer.

 "This book traces the history of the ancient Khazar Empire, a major but almost forgotten power in Eastern Europe, WHICH IN A.D. 740 CONVERTED TO JUDAISM...evidence indicates that the Khazars themselves migrated to Poland AND FORMED THE CRADLE OF WESTERN (ASHKENAZI) JEWRY....

 The Khazars' influence extended from the Black Sea to the Caspian, from the Caucasus to the Volga, and they were instrumental in stopping the Muslim onslaught against Byzantium, the eastern jaw of the gigantic pincer movement that in the West swept across Northern Africa and into Spain.

 Thereafter the Khazars found themselves in a precarious position between the two major world powers: the Eastern Roman Empire in Byzantium and the triumphant followers of Mohammed. As Arthur Koestler points out, the Khazars were the Third World of their day, AND THEY CHOSE A SURPRISING METHOD OF RESISTING BOTH THE WESTERN PRESSURE TO BECOME CHRISTIAN AND THE EASTERN TO ADOPT ISLAM. REJECTING BOTH, THEY CONVERTED TO JUDAISM.

 The second part of Mr. Koestler's book deals with the Khazar migration to Polish and Lithuanian territories, caused by the Mongol onslaught, and their impact on the racial composition and social heritage of modern Jewry. He produces a large body of meticulously detailed research in support of a theory that sounds all the more convincing for the restraint with which it is advanced.

 Mr. Koestler concludes: "The evidence presented in the previous chapters adds up to a strong case in favor of those modern historians - whether Austrian, Israel or Polish - who, independently from each other, have argued that THE BULK OF MODERN JEWRY IS NOT OF PALESTINIAN, BUT OF CAUCASIAN ORIGIN. The mainstream of Jewish migrations did not flow from the Mediterranean across France and Germany to the east and then back again. The stream moved in a consistently westerly direction, from the Caucasus through the Ukraine into Poland and thence into Central Europe. When that unprecedented mass settlement in Poland came into being, there were simply not enough Jews around in the west to account for it, while in the east a whole nation was on the move to new frontiers" (Page 179, Page 180).

 "The Ashkenazi, at the same period, numbered about eleven million. THUS, IN COMMON PARLANCE, JEW IS PRACTICALLY SYNONYMOUS WITH ASHKENAZI JEW." (Page 181).

 In Mr. Koestler's own words, "THE STORY OF THE KHAZAR EMPIRE, AS IT SLOWLY EMERGES FROM THE PAST, BEGINS TO LOOK LIKE THE MOST CRUEL HOAX WHICH HISTORY HAS EVER PERPETRATED." http:198.62.75.1/www2/koestler/

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 "EVIDENCE FROM THE AUSTRALIAN ASHKENAZI JEWISH POPULATION SUGGESTS AN EASTERN EUROPEAN ASHKENAZI ORIGIN." http://www.aegis.com/conferences/iac/1998/13312.html

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 BY GOING TO ASK JEEVES AND ASKING FOR "ORIGIN THE ASHKENAZI PEOPLE," YOU WILL FIND MANY BOOKS ON THE ORIGIN OF THE THIRTEENTH TRIBE OF JEWS.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 The American Heritage Dictionary, Third Edition, page 108, "One of Noah's grandsons, name of a neighboring but unidentified nation."

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 Information about the Ashkenazi Jews as given by Brian Schwertley in "Matthew 24 and the Great Tribulation."

 In A. D. 740 King Bulan adopt the Judaistic religion.

 His whole nation ended up being known as Jews.

 In 1665 11,000,000 of the 14,000,000 Jews were Ashkenazi Jews (about 86% of the Jews in the whole world).

 The Ashkenazi Jews have absolutely no ethnic lineage to Abraham or Jacob.

 They are descendants of an ancient nation called Khazaria.

 The Ashkenazi Jews look very European and spoke Yiddish, a dialect of High German written in characters of the Hebrew alphabet.

 The vast majority of all Jews today, in the world and in Palestine, are Ashkenazi Jews; and are not descendants of Abraham. They are descendants of an ancient nation called Khazaria, a very large kingdom that was between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea.

 In Israel today, the Ashkenazi Jews and the Sephrdim Jews have separate organizations, and the nation is divided.[With the Ashkenazi Jews who have no Jewish blood being dominant over the Sephrdim Jews of which only a few MAY have some Jewish blood. - W. West].

 He says the Ashkenazi Jews are dominant in Israel today numerical, politically, culturally, intellectually and economically. [But they are not Jews, not of the lineage of Abraham or of the Jews in the New Testament who rejected Jesus and were destroyed as a nation and are not a nation to this day. Israel today is not the same Israel of the Old Testament and is not made up of the same race, not the same tribe or people; the nation that is called "Israel" today is make up of counterfeits Jews who are not descendants of Abraham. - W. West].

 The other main grouping is the Sephrdim (14% or less of all Jews worldwide) mostly made up of Gentile converts, or descendants of Gentile converts and look like the people of the country they are in. There are black Jews in Ethiopia and South Africa, Japanese Jews, British Jews, Spanish Jews, etc., and they look and speak much like the country they are in and some of them can speak Hebrew. They have intermarried with the people of the country they are in for 20 centuries, and they are no longer the descendants of Abraham.[There are few if any living today who are the true descendants of Abraham, true Jews. They have passed out of exist as a nation and as a distinct race. - W. West ].

 He says modern Judaism is not the religion of the Old Testament but is a religion of the Talmud.

 And modern Jews do not worship the God of the Old Testament, and by Old Testament standards are a damnable heresy. [There is no tribe of Levite today, therefore, according to the Law there can be no priesthood today (Hebrews 7:11) yet they have priests who are not of the tribe of Levite - - W. West ].

 He gives a quotation from the "Encyclopedia Judaica Jerusalem," 1971, page 206, which acknowledges that the Jews of today do not believe they constitute a distinct race. "It is a common assumption, and one that sometimes seems ineradicable even in the face of evidence to the contrary, that the Jews of today constitute a race, homogeneous entity easily recognizable. From the preceding discussion of the origin and early history of the Jews, it should be clear that in the course of their formation as a people and a nation they had already assimilated a variety of racial strains from people moving into the general area they occupied. This had taken place by interbreeding and then by conversion to Judaism of a considerable number of communities...Thus, the diversity of the racial and genetic attributes of various Jewish colonies of today renders any unified racial classification of them a contradiction in terms. Despite this, many people readily accept the notion that they are a distinct race. This is probably reinforced by the fact that some Jews are recognizably different in appearance from the surrounding population. That many cannot be easily identified is overlooked and the stereotype for some is extended to all - a not uncommon phenomenon."

 The land that was Israel became other nations. There was not a nation anywhere in the world with the name Israel from A. D. 70 unto May 14, 1948 (1,878 years there was no Israel and long before A. D. 70 it was in bondage to Rome). Today the nation that goes by the name Israel does not believe in Christ; it has a religion that has only a little likeness to the religion of the Old Testament and is not Christianity. Some are atheists. ABOUT 86% OF THOSE IN THE COUNTRY WHICH CALLS ITSELF ISRAEL ARE ASKHENAZI AND ARE 100% GENTILES AND ARE NOT OF THE SEED OF ABRAHAM. A FEW ARE SEPHRDIM JEWS WHICH SOME MAY HAVE SOME BLOOD OF ABRAHAM IN THEM, BUT THEY ALSO ARE MOSTLY GENTILES. THOSE IN ISRAEL TODAY ARE NOT JEWS, AND THE ISRAEL OF TODAY IS NOT THE ISRAEL OF THE OLD TESTAMENT. ISRAEL HAS NOT BEEN RESTORED.

 NO TRIBAL IS IDENTIFIABLE TODAY. ALL the genealogical records of Israel were destroyed. If there were any true Jews today, not a one of them could know what tribe they were of.

 Jewish Christians was told to "shun foolish questionings, AND GENEALOGIES...for they are unprofitable and vain" [Titus 3:9]. For those being renewed in the Christ "there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision" [Colossians 3:10-11].

 Premillennialists must have the genealogical records of Israel that was destroyed or there can be no restored Israel and no Premillennial. Premillennialists must have Greek and Jew, real Jews, not Ashkenazi Jews for they have absolutely no ethnic lineage to Abraham or Jacob that but they make up most of the nation that is called Israel. TO HAVE A NATION OF ASHKENAZI'S IS NOT TO HAVE A NATION OF THE SEED OF ABRAHAM. TODAY'S "ISRAEL" IS NOT THE OLD TESTAMENT ISRAEL. TODAY'S "ISRAEL" DOES NOT WORSHIP ACCORDING TO THE OLD TESTAMENT, IT HAS THE TALMUD AS IT'S GUIDE, NOT THE OLD TESTAMENT.

 There are no Jews or Gentiles in Christianity [Ephesians 2:11-22]. The same salvation is offered to both. The Great Commission will last unto the end of this age and there will be no age after this dispensation when the Law will be restored.

 NO PRIEST. There could be no priest today for the priest HAD TO BE OF THE TRIBE OF LEVI, and no one could know whether they were of that tribe. Most, if not all the priest today are Ashkenazi and are not even the of the children of Abraham; therefore, there cannot be an Old Testament piesthood today. The priesthood has been changed [Hebrews 7:12].

 NO KING. The earthly throne of David has not been restored.

 NO WORSHIP. The Old Testament worship in the Temple in Jerusalem was the center of worship. Without the Temple there could not be worship.

 NO ONE IS UNDER THE LAW. Ephesians 2:14-16; Galatians 3:19-29; 4:21-32; Colossians 2:14-15; Romans 7:4. Without the blood or Christ there is no salvation.

 NOT THE CHILDREN OF ABRAHAM. "For they are not all Israel, that are of Israel: neither, because they are Abraham's seed, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall your seed be called. That is, it is not the children of the flesh that are children of God; but the children of the promise are reckoned for a seed" [Romans 9:6-8; Also Galatians 3:28-29].

 DOES NOT HONOR GOD. "He that honors not the Son, honors not the Father that sent Him" [John 5:23].

 NO ROOT, NO BRANCH, NO HOPE OF LIFE FOR ISRAEL

 Foy E. Wallace, Jr. says, "The prophet declares that 'the day shall burn as an oven' and 'it shall burn them up'--a pronouncement against the Jewish nation and governments that rejected and condemned the Christ, and persecuted his saints. The advent of the Messiah would be 'the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord'" "God's Prophetic Word," Page 545. Malachi's pronouncement against the Jewish nation that rejected and condemned the Christ, and persecuted his saints. "For behold, the day is coming, burning like a furnace; and all the arrogant and every evildoer will be chaff; and the day that is coming will set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root not branch" [Malachi 4:1]. Job says when a tree is cut down there is hope that the root will sprout [Job 14:8], there is hope of life. In the last chapter in the Old Testament of our English Bible Malachi says Israel will not be left a root to sprout a branch or a branch to sprout roots. There is no hope for life.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 Summary: The Millennium could not have been known about by God, Daniel or any others of the Old Testament prophets if they did not know about the rejection and death of Christ and if the church were an unknown afterthought to fill in the time that God did not foresee unto the second coming, WHICH GOD COULD NOT FORESEE IF HE DID NOT FORESEE HIS REJECTION AND FAILURE TO SET UP THE KINGDOM THE FIRST TIME HE CAME. GOD WOULD NOT HAVE FORESEEN THE NEED FOR CHRIST TO COME A SECOND TIME TO SET UP THE KINGDOM IF HE DID NOT KNOW HE WAS GOING TO FAIL TO SET IT UP THE FIRST TIME. IT IS THE MILLENNIUM THEMSELVES THAT TELL UP GOD DID NOT FORESEE THE FIRST FAILURE OF CHRIST TO SET UP THE KINGDOM, THEREFORE, ACCORDING TO THEM, GOD COULD NOT HAVE KNOWN ABOUT THE MILLENNIUM AND IF GOD AND CHRIST HAD NOT FAILED THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN NO NEED FOR A MILLENNIUM.

 Premillennialists deny all most, if not all, of the Bible and substitutes with their own teaching.

 Premillennialists deny the deity of Christ and make Him just a man.

 Premillennialists deny that the church was known about in The Old Testament and that it was in the plain of God from before the earth was made, THEREFORE,

 Death of Christ and His blood for the remission of sins could not have been known about.

 The church bought with the blood of Christ could not have been known about. It was just an afterthought.

 If the rejection of Christ by the Jews were not known about, His second coming to set up the kingdom He failed to set up the first time could not have been known about, THEREFORE, THE MILLENNIUM COULD NOT AND WAS NOT KNOWN ABOUT BY GOD OR ANY OF THE OLD TESTAMENT PROPHETS. There could be nothing in Daniel about the Millennium for it would have been unknown about by God and Daniel.

 Premillennialists make the church, the bride of Christ, the body of Christ, be replaced by a Jewish state at the beginning of the thousand years. It reinstates the Law with its animal sacrifices.

 Premillennialists deny the reason for the second coming of Christ. Makes His coming be to set up a Jewish state, not for the resurrection and judgment.

 Premillennialists deny Heaven is for the saved. Makes mankind forever live on the earth.

 Let me resay: Not all Millennialists believe all the above, but all the above are believed by many Millennialists. An example: One Millennialists may believe the first five, but not believe number six. There is an astounding lack of agreement and contradictory variations of beliefs between them.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 A DIFFERENT GOSPEL (Galatians 1:6)

 THE BIBLE--VERSUS--THE MILLENNIUM DOCTRINE

 Some of the evils of the millennial doctrine.

 Premillennialists say Christ is a created being, created at His birth--versus--Christ preexisted before the earth. Christ was created--versus--Christ made all created things. MAKES HIM BE JUST A MAN, NOT A DIVINE BEING.

 Premillennialists say God, Christ, or the prophets did not know the Jews would reject Christ and put Him to death. It makes God be neither all knowing or all powerful. If He were unable to restore the kingdom to Israel as He planned to then it MAKES HIS FIRST COMING A FAILURE.

 Both John the Baptist and Christ said the kingdom of Heaven is at hand. Premillennialists say both were wrong.

 Premillennialists say the church and the New Covenant are just an afterthought, were added to fill in unto God could set up the kingdom He was not able to at the first coming of Christ. IT MAKES THE OLD COVENANT BE SUPERIOR TO THE NEW COVENANT.

 Premillennialists make the death of Christ be not needed. They say it was both unplanned and unknown that Christ would be put to death; and if the Jews had not rejected Him and put Him to death, Israel would have been restored and the kingdom set up according to God's plan. THE DEATH OF CHRIST WAS NOT IN THE PLAIN OF GOD, THEREFORE, WAS NOT NEEDED.

 There could not have been any predictions or prophecy about the suffering of Christ, the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, the church, the New Covenant; there could not have been any prophecy about the Millennium for we are told they were all unknown of by God and the prophets. If the kingdom had been restored to Israel as the Millennialists say God planned for it to be, there would have been no Millennium, yet they use many Old Testament passages to prove that God did know what they say He did not know.

 Premillennialists make Judaism superior to Christianity, and the Law with its animal sacrifices will be restored.

 Premillennialists deny that Christ is now king and is now on the throne of David.

 Many Premillennialists say eternal life for the saved will be on earth--versus--Eternal life in Heaven. No one will ever be in Heaven.

 Resurrected with an earthly body--versus--resurrected a spiritual being.

 Premillennial doctrine is a return to Judaism, a reestablishment of national Israel and the types and shadows of the Old Covenant, which the writer of Hebrews is warning against throughout the whole book of Hebrews.

 IN BRIEF, THE PREMILLENNIAL BELIEF IS A COMPLETE REWRITE OF THE BIBLE. THE DIFFERENCES AND DISAGREEMENTS IN THE GOSPEL AND PREMILLENNIAL BELIEFS ARE SO GREAT THAT NO ONE CAN BELIEVE BOTH.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 The Back Cover Of The Book

 When will the secret rapture come to pass? Will you miss it?

 Will there be cars without drivers after the rapture?

 What is the battle of Armageddon? Is it coming soon?

 How and when will Satan be bound for a thousand years?

 Will Israel be restored? Will there be a worldwide conversion of Jews?

 Will the temple be rebuilt in Jerusalem?

 When will Jesus be on David's throne?

 Will animal sacrifices be restored?

 What is the Millennium time table?

 What are the signs of the second coming of Christ?

 Who are the 144,000?

 Will there be one, two, or three resurrections?

 What is the "time of the Gentiles"?

 What is the "gap" theory?

 Where will the saved spend eternity, in Heaven or on Earth?

 When and what is the first resurrection and second death?

 Who is the thirteenth tribe?

 By the author of "Unconditional Immortality Or Resurrection Of The Dead" available from Barnes And Noble at: http://search.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?r=1&EAN=0741446200 $18.36, Members $16.32

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - --

 "Unconditional Immortality or Resurrection of the Dead" all ten chapters below

 A FREE COPY OF MY E-BOOK, "Unconditional Immortality Or Resurrection Of The Dead" By William Robert West, Infinity Pub., ISBN- 0-7414-4620-0, 365 Pages, 2008. Third edition: can be downloaded from: www.robertwr.com.resurrection.pdf 493,000 + copies downloaded to date of all three editions combined.

 Or buy the printed copy FROM BOOKSTORES ON THE WEB:

 Best web buys

 http://www.bestwebbuys.com/9780741446206

 Amazon

 http://www.amazon.com/Unconditional-Immortality-William-Robert-West/dp/0741446200/ref=sr111?ie=UTF8&qid=1207413814&sr=11-1

 Barnes And Noble $18.36, Members $16.32

 http://search.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?r=1&EAN=0741446200

 Target

 http://www.target.com/gp/detail.html/601-9731540-7763319?asin=0741446200&afid=yahoosspplpbmvd&lnm=0741446200|UnconditionalImmortality:Books&ref=tgtadvXSNG1060

 Others

 http://www.bbotw.com/product.aspx?ISBN=0-7414-4620-0

 http://www.buybooksontheweb.com/product.aspx?ISBN=0-7414-4620-0

 http://www.gettextbooks.com/search/?isbn=ISBN+0-7414-4620-0

 http://www.addall.com/New/submitNew.cgi?query=0741446200&type=ISBN&location=10000&state=&dispCurr=USD

 Many others on line. Or is available is many bookstores and can be special ordered from most bookstores. Ask for ISBN- 0-7414-4620-0

 Kindle 2 digital text platform edition is also available from Amazon.com/ for $9.99 at: http://www.amazon.com/Unconditional-Immortality-Resurretion-Dead/dp/B001AWNQI0/ref=sr12?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1236294815&sr=1-2

 --------------------------------

 Or html: CHAPTER ONE: The reinterpretation of the nature of man

 Soul in Genesis, Soul in the New Testament, Old Testament words, which are translated life, spirit, breath, or soul, are all used referring to both a person and animals, Soul in the Old Testament.

 Soul in the New Testament, Plato's immortal soul versus Christ's life and resurrection, Historical proof of reinterpretations of the Bible. The great confusion - Soul or Spirit or Both? http://robertwr.com/ 

 Chapter TWO

 : Life or death? http://robertwr.com/life.html 

 Chapter THREE

 : The reinterpretations of the great doctrines of the Bible. http://robertwr.com/immortal.html 

 ChapterS

 FOUR, FIVE, SIX, AND SEVEN: http://robertwr.com/hell.html 

 Chapter FOUR

 : From where came hell? The given no chance Hell. Edward Fudge's Short Hell. The Changing Hell. The Vanishing Hell. 

 Chapter FIVE

 : Sheol, Hades, Tartarus, and the Nether World. The soul is the image of Adam. 

 Chapter SIX

 : The thirty-one passages where Hell is used in the King James Version. 

 Chapter SEVEN

 : A Strange and Unexplainable Silence. 

 ChapterS

 EIGHT, NINE, AND TEN: http://robertwr.com/heaven.html 

 Chapter EIGHT

 : The interpretation of figurative language, metaphors and symbolical passage.

 PART ONE: Israel's destruction, her weeping, gnashing of teeth, outer darkness.

 PART TWO: The intermediate bosom, the rich man and Lazarus.

 PART THREE: The symbolical pictures of Revelation versus a literal interpretation. 

 Chapter NINE

 : Universalist: The "age lasting" Hell. 

 Chapter TEN

 : Evil Pagan teachings that are attributed to God.