Write Stories To Me, Grandpa!

 

 

  

 

 WRITE STORIES TO ME, GRANDPA! (Fourth Edition-2006)

 Original Intergenerational Stories for Pre-School Youngsters to Young Adults: Yarns, Vignettes, Memorabilia, Essays and Models for the Young-at-Heart Whatever Their Age

 By Meyer Moldeven

 (Mikemvn8@aol.com)

 ~~~

 ©1987, 1992, 2000, 2006

 CREATIVE COMMONS LICENSE for this 2006 Fourth Edition

 You are free: -- to copy, distribute, display, and perform the work, and -- to make derivative works.

 Under the following conditions: -- Noncommercial. You may not use this work for commercial purposes. -- Any of these conditions can be waived if you get permission from the copyright holder. -- Your fair use and other rights are in no way affected by the above.

 ~~~

 PART ONE: WE LEARN FROM EACH OTHER

 Preface

 The original 1987 edition of this work was published as an illustrated paper book titled: 'Write Stories To Me, Grandpa!.' The second edition, 'A Grandpa's Notebook,' (not illustrated) also paper, was published in 1992, and the third as an electronic book (ebook), same title, is listed in the Internet's Project Gutenberg Library Archive Foundation, from where it may be freely downloaded at:

 http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/2737

 and in

 MANYBOOKS at

 http://manybooks.net/titles/moldevenetext01grnpa10.html

 This 2006 Fourth Edition has been edited and expanded to include new material.

 Following are representative of more than twenty-five media reviews of the original and second editions:

 BOOKLIST Book review journal of the American Library Association, November 15, 1987) 'Moldeven, a 70-year old (89 at this posting) grandfather turned author and publisher sets a wonderful example and shares many practical lessons on keeping in touch with grandchildren in these times of mobile families. When it is impossible to see or talk to grandchildren as often as one would like, Moldeven suggests writing them stories. His book offers general tips on getting started along with 25 sample stories. The author emphasizes simplicity and imagination in the creation of plots and illustrations. For grandparents who lack confidence in their writing or picture-making abilities, Moldeven suggests working with photographs or magazine pictures and devising custom-made stories from classic fables or folk tales. This encouraging, easy-to-read guide for grandparents (near and faraway) can also be used as a resource for senior citizen's projects.'

 #

 The Rocky Mount Evening & Sun Telegram, August 23, 1987 Rocky Mount, North Carolina (excerpt) 'This book was written for grandparents, primarily; but parents and kindergarten and primary teachers will find the techniques and stories of value in relating to young children.... This supremely useful work, while designed for the too-far away relative, offers exciting possibilities for intergenerational communication, even if the family is settled in one community, next door, or even in the same house. It has the additional virtue of promoting activities that encourage the grandchild toward reading and writing skills, strengthening ties, and establishing values, easily taught through family history and traditions.'

 #

 New Era Magazine, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, December 10, 1987 (excerpt) 'A totally delightful how-to book of stories he created not only for but with his faraway grandchildren É. É he got the children to describe the characters, and tell him a little about them. I got several nifty ideas for stories for (and with) my own nearby granddaughter. It has [resources to] É keep even a totally talent-free grandparent creatively and happily involved with his or her grandchildren.'

 #

 Friends of Parks and Recreation, Vol 3, Nr 1 (published by the National Recreation and Parks Association, Arlington, Virginia) Review of Second Edition 1992. (excerpt) 'Éthe book's encouraging style] can help the reader break through personal doubts and other communication obstacles... .

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 PART ONE: WE LEARN FROM EACH OTHER

 Preface Table of Contents Introduction First Letter to a Distant Grandchild Too-Faraway Grandparent How My Stories Began Family History Scroll What's In It for You? Picture Postcards Grandparent's Role Grandpa Too Far Think a Story Grandparent-Grandchild Interview Create an Heirloom Catalogue Values and Traditions Living History Folk Tales Turn-the-Page Stories Record Your Albums No Answers Grandparents in the Virtual Classroom Show-and-Tell Expert Don't Just Ride Off Into the Sunset Recapture the Spark

 PART TWO: FIRST STORIES

 Grandpa Takes a Walk Dooby and Katrinka Have an Idea Circus Adventure The Dinosaur's Nest Dinosaurs? Having a Birthday Party?

 PART THREE: THE PALM TREE STORIES Put Palm Trees in Your Stories Along the Ridge of the Dunes Gone Sailing Dolphins Alongside Snug Harbor Hike Visit with Two Seals Noises in the Night The Little Old Man's Strange Story The Same Tale: And then... Still the Same Story: What a Finish!

 PART FOUR: REACH FOR THE STARS, GRANDPA! A Bagel? In Space? Stobey and Slutter Fly to Super-Rock Playground Swinging from a Star Visitors from Planet Earth Sir Lumpalot and Kick-Pow Into the Stranger's House Bingbang Babbaloo Battles Burpers

 PART FIVE LORE AND MEMOIRS Stories to the World Memoir: Outer Space Logistics for the Future? Preparing for a Holiday It's Only a Safety Pin! Tricia and David and Their Flying Unicorns

 About the Author Also by the Author

 ####

 INTRODUCTION

 The United States human population recently passed 300,000,000. Of that total, more than 60 million are grandparents and their numbers keep increasing. Enormous changes have taken place in longevity and lifestyles since today's older adults were young and were, themselves, grandchildren. Experts estimate that, at the other end of the scale, are thirty to fifty thousand living centenarians in the United States, up from a 1980 estimate of fifteen thousand. Add to this fact that centenarians are not as feeble as they once were; disability rates among the elderly have been falling since the early 1980s.

 Life expectancy at birth in the United States has increased by nearly 30 years since the turn of the 20th century, from 47 to about 76. On the other hand, families are more widely dispersed, successful interaction by grandparents with their distant grandchildren, whether for geographic reasons or barriers of circumstance, increasingly search for ways to innovate and improvise. Technology, especially electronic communications, is entitled to credit for successes.

 On the other hand, a vast store of practical knowledge as well as a culture's lore languishes in almost every family, especially among its elders, more than ready to be passed along to succeeding generations. An important source for initiatives and models by grandparents to meet the needs, and the yearnings, of this era's grandchildren and the young generally are in the observations and experiences of a society's elders. It is not up to our young grandchildren to say what in we elders' experiences might be useful or enlightening to them? If it was up to them, how might they draw it out of us? A paradox indeed.

 This is not a child's storybook, although most of the stories, vignettes and essays may interest youth from toddlers to young adults and, from other perspectives, parents, grandparents, older adults generally, and teachers. The book's intent is to demonstrate one elderly lay person's approach to fostering understanding between generations in the context of family, school, community and culture, and to suggest examples.

 FIRST LETTER TO A DISTANT GRANDCHILD

 Don't let that blank sheet of paper intimidate you. Here's a model that you can rework to suit your situation:

 'Grandma and Grandpa now live in a house that is very far from where you live. We'll still see each other as often as we can, but sometimes the wait will be just a little bit longer. One way for us to visit is by telephoning. Another is by our writing letters and emails that Mom or Dad will read aloud to you. I'll start my writing to you by telling a little about Grandmas and Grandpas.

 'Grandmas and Grandpas are older than mothers and fathers. They usually have gray hair or white hair. Sometimes, Grandpas have no hair at all, but that's all right because then Grandpas won't need to use a comb and hairbrush every morning.

 'Grandmas and Grandpas like to take grandchildren to the zoo to see the elephants and the deer and the monkeys. They also like to take grandchildren to the park to ride on the merry-go-round, and to the lake to throw breadcrumbs to the ducks and the geese and the swans.

 'On the way home from the zoo or the park, Grandmas and Grandpas take grandchildren to the bakery. There, they stand at the counter and smell the fresh bread, and buy cookies and cakes for desserts.

 'Grandmas and Grandpas like to play games with grandchildren, listen to grandchildren tell what happened in the park and at school, and answer questions. They especially like to read stories to grandchildren from big books with lots of pictures.

 'Grandmas and Grandpas like to hold grandchildren in their laps and hug them. Grandpas also like to shake hands, or pat grandchildren on their heads. That is a little bit about Grandmas and Grandpas and Grandchildren.'

 TOO-FARAWAY GRANDPARENT

 During a talk I gave to a senior citizens group a woman in the audience remarked, 'I'm a volunteer helper in a class of first graders at (naming a nearby school.) I haven't given it much thought until now, but I've come to realize that some youngsters see their grandparents regularly, others rarely, and still others see their grandparents not at all. For a few, grandparents live too far away, and other youngsters don't know where their grandparents live or even if they have grandparents, but saddest of all are the kids who don't know what grandparents are.'

 Grandparents and grandchildren are natural allies, but when their homes are too far apart, or other barriers intervene, their alliance weakens. Everybody loses, including the youngsters' parents - the generation in the middle.

 HOW MY STORIES BEGAN

 I live in one city, my grandchildren in another almost a thousand miles distant. During one of my visits I took my, then, three-year-old granddaughter for a stroll. We paused to examine a spider's web spanning a space between two shrubs. A rain shower had passed shortly before and droplets festooned the web's strands and rainbow-sparkled in the morning sunlight. Standing there, both of us bent forward peering into the web, I wove a story that transformed the sparkling strands into a carnival and the spider into an acrobat. Granddaughter's eyes widened with wonder.

 We continued on and stopped at a house to observe a cat on the porch playing with a yellow ball. I wove another tale, this time of a cat and a strange ball that bounced too high and disappeared into a cloud. Again, my granddaughter's expression showed her pleasure in hearing grandpa's story. For the remainder of my visit, and during subsequent visits, I told her, and when he was old enough, my grandson, of the world around us and how we hoped to, some day, live all together peacefully on Planet Earth.

 Visits, in either direction were infrequent. Adult-oriented telephone calls usually left only brief moments for talking to grandchildren. Long distance calls just didn't generate the right ambiance and enough time for the relaxed talking and easy listening that goes naturally with a grandpa story. Then, too, at the close of an adult telephone conversation the youngsters are usually busy at other things, and sometimes grandpas just don't do well as talkers.

 In my situation, I filled the gap with hand-scribed and, later on, typed stories. The letter-stories lengthened our telephone chats to devising plots for new stories, flesh-out characters, settings, and scenes. There are no better aids to a grandparent-grandchild telephone or email story conference than our faithful friends Who, What, Where, When, Why and How.

 In my situation, one letter-story followed another, often illustrated with pictures from discarded magazines. When I couldn't find a just-right illustration, I laboriously sketched an all-thumbs grandpa original. It was an enjoyable experience for me, and feedback from the family showed it was enjoyable for my grandchildren as well.

 FAMILY HISTORY SCROLL

 The extended family's history scroll is shipped from one relative to another in a mailing tube or as an attachment to an email. Each family adds a paragraph or a genealogical sketch to record what happened to them since the previous go-round and that might be of interest to others. Generally, the messages and line sketches are hand scribed, but may be typed and snapshots attached with plastic adhesive tape, or accompany the email.

 When a scroll becomes too cumbersome for easy handling it may be retired and stored (or electronically archived) with one of the family members and a note added to a succeeding scroll stating with whom or where the previous scroll is stored.

 WHAT'S IN IT FOR YOU?

 Long-term studies of large communities offer evidence that individuals with strong family and social ties tend to be healthier than those that live in isolation.

 A conference of doctors and social scientists proposed a theory that altruism, particularly when the helper observes its benefits, can reduce feelings of helplessness and depression and thus enhance health. Also, persons who came in direct contact with those that they aided reported a strong and lasting sense of satisfaction, even exhilaration, an increased sense of self-worth, less depression, and fewer aches and pains.

 Relating the theory to the theme of these notes, what a grandparent gets back often depends to the value he or she places on, and the efforts he or she makes toward building positive intergenerational relationships. If family has significance, then interacting with a grandchild, near or faraway, manifests that significance and the returns it generates.

 Returns imply investments. As grandparents age, their investment is transformed into a return.' The 'return' contributes vitality, vibrancy and enrichment to a grandparent's latter years.

 PICTURE POSTCARDS

 During a discussion on intergenerational communications one of the men present said that he wanted to send a picture postcard to his distant grandchild but didn't know what to write. He said he had been a salesman but, in this situation, he was at a loss for words.

 I asked what he had done earlier that day. He mentioned several ordinary activities and added, as an afterthought, that he had strolled along a nearby beach.

 'What did you see during your walk?'

 'Seals and pelicans on the rocks offshore. Big waves rolling in. One of the seals slid off the rock and into the water. The tide was out, and I explored a tide pool. I saw a... .'

 He stared at me for a moment, grinned, took his pen from his shirt pocket and made notes on a slip of paper.

 GRANDPARENT'S ROLE

 Grandparents generally accept and enjoy the many roles into which they have been cast. One of the many is that they are the grandparents of all their grandchildren, not just of one that they chose to be their favorite. Favoritism invites disaster.

 A young mother of two posed the following dilemma to an Internet discussion group devoted to family relations and child behavior. I altered the text slightly, primarily to ensure the writer's privacy. She wrote:

 'Since the birth of our second child our family has received lots of warm wishes. Yet, often, in offering congratulations, well-wishers remarked along the lines 'You must be happy to have a boy now.' This confused our older child, a four-year-old girl.'

 'Of course, she is a much loved and cherished child and we could not love her any more if she were a boy. And we are very happy to have our new son, but would have loved a second daughter just as much. But the casual remarks about having a son are secondary to my concern about my parents' relationship with our children.

 'My parents reside within easy driving distance and we are a close-knit family. Rarely a week passes that my parents and we don't do something together. They are my daughter's primary baby-sitters and are very generous toward her.

 'However, I am starting to see that there will be a difference, based solely on gender, in my parents' treatment of both children. When my son was barely a week old, my father said that he was looking forward to taking him fishing. When I remarked that my daughter had a fishing pole and, due to the age difference between her and her brother, would be a more appropriate companion, still no invitation was forthcoming.

 'When my father invited my husband fishing the following week, my father grumbled at the suggestion that they take my daughter along.

 'My son is now two and a half months old, and my father is looking forward to participating with him in Little League, soccer, etc. Again, both my husband and I chimed in that the same activities are also available for girls. Silence.

 'What really disturbs me is that after these rebuffs my daughter sometimes quietly says to me, 'Mama, I am proud we both are girls.' I don't know where she gets this from, but she'll often repeat it several times and in more of a forlorn tone than an enthusiastic one.'

 A GRANDPA TOO FAR

 You telephone your son or daughter who lives in a distant city. He or she now has her own children. You chat with your son or daughter in the usual fashion. Closing, you ask to talk to your grandchild. The youngster comes on line. 'Hi,' Grandchild says. 'Hi, there! Know who this is?' 'Grandpa.' 'Right, Grandpa. How are you, dear?' 'Fine.' 'Good. What are you doing?' 'Playing with my toys.' 'What did you do yesterday?' 'Went to the park.' '...have a good time there?' 'Yes.' 'That's nice. Well, I'm sure glad we had this little chat. Aren't you?' 'Yes.' 'Bye.' 'Bye.' The following morning at day school the children talk about what happened over the weekend. It's Grandchild's turn. 'Oh, I played with my toys and went to the park and I talked to my grandpa on the telephone.' 'What did you and grandpa talk about?' Long pause. 'Oh ... nothin'.'

 THINK A STORY

 If you can think a story, and if you can write a letter or express your thoughts orally or visually, then you can combine them into a message to a grandchild. The more often you do it, the easier it becomes. If the mechanics of writing, typing, or drawing is the problem, then audiotape. The point is to interact and communicate with a grandchild so that the youngster knows of your caring, and that caring is normal. Grandchild will readily grasp that Grandma or Grandpa wants to share, and that sharing is fine.

 The type of communication most desired by my grandchildren until their fifth or sixth years, and under the circumstances of the distance between us, was the letter-story; nowadays, in many households the computer and the cellphone. The written stories evolved out of our infrequent family get-togethers. Occasionally, an idea for a story called for follow up negotiations over the telephone to clarify plots, scenes, and characters. My grandchildren liked the stories, and both they and I enjoyed the discussions that preceded the writing. The give-and-take stimulated our imaginations and creativity, and often provided me with opportunities to pass along family history.

 Today's youngsters know more about the world than children of previous generations, one of the many benefits of our expanding telecommunication capabilities and greater education and travel opportunities. Youngsters get their view of the world from what they see, hear, and learn from and about their families.

 Letter stories, anecdotes and lore give grandchildren a better view of their grandparents, and about what older adults believe. The process, if positive oriented, contributes toward the grandchild's maturity, and offers them encouragement, values, models and incentives. There are tens of thousands of homes across the world where treasured possessions, tangible and otherwise, were created or acquired by the occupants or their forebears. You have them in your home as I do in mine. In time, those possessions: properties and artifacts, along with their histories, will move along to your children and grandchildren. In every culture, 'grandpa and grandma stories', along with 'mom and dad stories,' are part of that inheritance.

 When youngsters know that Grandpa or Grandma wrote a story expressly for them, that more than qualifies the story for the special collection of treasures to be shared with close friends, presented at school as a show-and-tell, and eventually absorbed into the treasured memorabilia of childhood.

 GRANDPARENT-GRANDCHILD INTERVIEW

 A fun way to open lines of communications while visiting grandchildren, be the youngsters residing nearby or far away, is the audiotaped, email or cellphone interview. Living nearby, the grandchild knows grandma and grandpa, they're part of everyday life. Far away is different, geography creates gaps.

 The one-on-one interview builds self-esteem and confidence in a youngster. It's an excellent learning experience, and creates a record of lasting memories for the family's archives.

 An interview structures a conversation. Men are often as reticent as women are eloquent: women are much more socially oriented than men and communicate easier. However, the interview technique can be a starter to work through Grandpa's reserve. It quickly engages the participants in a dialogue and is as much fun for one as for the other.

 Vague questions by adults should be avoided; they're confusing.

 Let's set up an interview.

 Grandma and Grandpa plan to visit Son or Daughter and the Grandchildren. The visit will include a Grandpa or Grandma interview to be conducted by Grandchild and the give-and-take will be recorded, audio and/or video.

 In arranging the visit, Grandma or Grandpa discusses with Son or Daughter what they have in mind. It's fine with Son/Daughter and they agree to prepare Grandchild, including general subjects to explore and preliminary questions. It's a fun experience, but don't insist on having an audience present that might make anyone uncomfortable.

 When all concerned are ready (recorders checked and set up, the date, time, place, names, occasion, and whatever else considered prefatory has been recorded in advance) Grandchild opens with the first question. In this example, Grandpa is being interviewed.

 In responding, Grandpa avoids the simple 'yes' or 'no' answer even when such might suffice. Sure, Grandpa could respond with 'Yes' or 'No' to Grandchild's question, 'Grandpa, is your first name 'Tom'?' Wouldn't it be more fun if Grandpa transformed his reply into family lore with 'Yes, it is, and let me tell you how I got that name. The Sunday after I was born, my Dad hooked ol' Dobbin to the sleigh to take us all to... .' and he's off and away into another bit of Lore Americana, or wherever.

 Unless agreed to in advance, questions and answers are serious. Knowing what a young grandchild likes to talk about is important and can focus the interview.

 Youngsters, though, have minds of their own and might well pop an unexpected question. Using 'we' or 'us' and encouraging inputs from Grandchild keeps the interview from becoming one-sided. Grandchildren pile up their experiences and feelings for an anticipated interaction, and an interview will provide speaker or listener with opportunities to talk about them and themselves.

 Grandpa creates opportunities. For instance, in answering a question, he closes with: 'That's how it worked out for me; now, how about you? Did you ever?' and the switch is made.

 The interview can go in one direction then the other for as long as both want it to. In the give-and-take Grandchild learns a lot about Grandma and Grandpa, and everyone involved in the game broaden their awareness, and renew and revitalize family traditions and values.

 Expect spontaneity and deep probing by youngsters when they are the interviewers. They are interested in the origins of people and things, depending on their ages, of course; be ready for such questions as:

 What are stars in the sky? What keeps them up when everything else falls? Why is the sun? The moon? Who made them? Why? Where do eggs come from? Did I come from an egg? Well, then, where did I come from? Is that where you came from? Where is a baby before it's born? Why did (Grandpa/Grandma) die? Where is (he/she) now?

 CREATE AN HEIRLOOM CATALOGUE

 Family treasures are passed along from generation to generation. In time, they acquire the venerable aura of heirlooms. The passage of years transform them into antiques that are honored in the family's lore and traditions.

 You have several, you say? Heirlooms? Where? And antiques too?

 Squirreled away, at the moment, in your cellar, attic, or garage, or proudly displayed in your den or sewing room, the ancient objects eventual departure for elsewhere is inevitable. They have survived one house cleaning after another and denied candidacy for garage sales and flea markets. Some are treasures from previous generations, or the product of your own hands and, without doubt, they belong to posterity. OK, so this or that artifact doesn't' have museum value; it could still be of enduring interest to your family and to the progeny of your progeny's progeny, even unto the xth generation. Who's to say?

 The heirloom, or heirloom-to-be, might be a brooch or wedding dress great-grandma wore, or a long ago foot-pedaling or hand-turning sewing machine. It might be a delicate tea set, a venerable book of sheet music your grandpa's great-grandma brought with her from the old country, a 1920s typewriter on its original stand, a set of ancient but still usable wood carving tools, a widget that the inventor (your Grandpa!) was certain would be a technological breakthrough, or, you name it.

 And that may be the problem. You might be able to name it but how much do you know about it. If you made it, usually no problem, but if it's from a past generation, it may not be that simple. Generally, our forebears gave little thought, if any, to an intergenerational communication that would accompany one of their possessions into the future. To the original owner, the Thing might have been for everyday use around the house, barn, shop, wherever. Nevertheless, such Things do acquire uniqueness over time, and even if no longer of practical use, they represent an individual's , a family's , or a community's history and perhaps, grandeur.

 Cataloging an heirloom rediscovers and records the past and, through the your memories or of others builds another bridge from the past to the present. Family history and tradition are enhanced by facts that emerge in what you can recall from way back when.

 Elements to consider in cataloging an heirloom:

 The Thing: What it is, and what it's made of. Look at and feel the watchamacallit if it lets you. Record what you see, feel, smell, hear, taste (watch that last one), and otherwise sense. If possible, sketch or photograph the Thing.

 Its History: Where and when it was made; where it's been; anecdotes, legends, evidence of significant events in which it was used or 'was right there in the middle of that mess,' and the family and community personalities who were and are associated with it, and in what way.

 Its Use and Care: How the original and successive owners used it; suggested uses for now. (Oldness is not necessarily equated with uselessness. Right? Right!) Conditioning or preservation: oil it, polish it, display it away from direct sunlight, put it to work, coddle it, take it for a walk, just leave it be right where it is, etc.

 Many heirlooms eventually find their way into museums, historic societies, and community archives. Even if they do not, preservation and conservation are important. To slow an heirloom's deterioration, store or display them carefully away from harsh artificial lights, sunlight, heat, and dampness; inspect and restore as required, use acid-free wrapping paper, and just keep them out of harms way. Visit museums and historical societies for ideas on how to protect and display your heirlooms.

 What you get in return is personal pleasure, and a store of anecdotes, history, lore and traditions for grandkids, nieces, nephews, and nearby and distant family whatever their ages. Photos and sketches, along with verbal descriptions and commentaries are constituents of tradition and values-and the finest kind of intergenerational communications.

 VALUES AND TRADITIONS

 Many older adults have interests other than family. They work, play golf and other sports, have active social lives and hobbies, and so on. So, indeed, what's in grandparenting for them?

 It depends on how much value a grandparent-and a parent places on family ties and the need for and the flow of intergenerational communications. Where family has meaning, interacting with a far away grandchild adds substance to a 'value'. Then, as the grandparent ages, communicating with the distant grandchild retains its strength as a positive force, and enriches the remaining years. It reduces loneliness, and is an antidote for apathy and depression. Entering grandparenting with tolerance, constancy, and sincerity adds pleasures to a person's life. In storytelling, grandparenting invites a call from a distant grandchild to ' send me another story,' or better yet, 'I've got an idea for a story. Let me tell you about it.'

 The grandchild chose the grandparent over television, computer games and the many other forms of professionally polished commercial entertainment that thrust themselves forward for his or her attention. In so choosing, the youngster notifies the grandparents through his/her appeal that they, the grandparents, are wanted and needed. It's Grandchild reaching out and inviting Grandma and Grandpa into his or her world, with affection.

 In single-parent families and in families in which both parents work away from home, there might not be as many opportunities to pass along traditions, awareness, and values. Be that as it may, throughout history the family and tribal elders passed their knowledge and codes of conduct on to those who, as part of the natural process, carry the torches into the future. This responsibility to family and community is in the substance of existence.

 LIVING HISTORY

 For many of us, our lives are keyed to significant events, transitions, locales, or something that has importance to ourselves or to our families. For me, the important events and episodes happened to be on a time-line by location: the places where my family resided over the years. I spent the first twenty-five years of my life in the city where I was born and raised. Afterward, a few years in a distant city, then on to another and still another, each invariably distant and different than before.

 After I retired, I took the time to make notes on as many important events that I could recall, and keyed each to a geographic location. I gave each episode a title or sketched a brief outline that would stimulate my memory to the place and help me to talk about it. My list began with city A: my preschool and school years (with several sub-headings because those times had been chaotic); the Great Depression, the first job, etc. City B: why I was there; the job; etc. I continued on to the next and the next.

 When I finished my initial list of 'cities' or 'countries' and numbered them I found that I had more than one hundred events, episodes or time periods. I arranged them so that one followed the other as they had occurred or were otherwise linked. That became my outline.

 I took the list along when I visited my grandchildren (my daughter had briefed the family beforehand about Grandpa's list.) Evenings, relaxed at the table after dinner, Grandson or Granddaughter would call out, for example, 'Grandpa! Number 67!' I made a big deal out of hauling the list from my back pocket, carefully unfolding it, locating the number and reading the title aloud. Then, on to chin-rubbing, head scratching, ceiling staring, and after enough 'C'mon, grandpa! Get with it!' from all directions I went into my act, narrating in words, tone, gestures, and body language the events of oft-told 'Number 67', or whatever number they had chosen.

 They would listen, spellbound and cut in with comments and questions. To them, it was their family history and often, drama, and they really want to know. Invariably, the story was followed with reminiscences by their Mom and Dad who added variations, details, interpretations from their memories, and spin off comparable events in their lives, often long into the wee hours.

 Autobiography became living history-the occasion of the telling is now an event not to be forgotten-and the finest kind of intergenerational communication.

 FOLK TALES

 An old, old man lived in the home of his son. The son had a wife and a young son of his own. At meal times the old man sat at the kitchen table. His eyes were dim and he barely saw; his ears were dull and he barely heard, and his hands trembled. He had difficulty holding his spoon as he tried to feed himself broth from a bowl. Now and then a few drops fell from his spoon on to the tablecloth, or the bowl tipped too far, spilling.

 His son and his son's wife were disgusted at the sight of him. Finally, one day, after the old man's trembling hand caused the bowl to fall to the floor and break, they gave him an old wooden bowl, and made him sit with it out of sight behind the stove. At mealtimes, they put food into the wooden bowl and left the old man alone to manage as best he could.

 One evening, after dinner, they were all in the sitting room. The old man's son noticed that his own young son had gathered few pieces of wood and stored them in a corner among his playthings.

 'What have you there?' The youngster's father pointed to the wood.

 The child looked up. 'I am making wooden bowls,' he answered quietly, 'for you and for Mommy to eat out of when I am grown, and you are both very old.'

 I received a letter from a woman of Japanese ancestry who read the story. She wrote that her father, who had passed along to his children much of the lore and tales of old Japan, had told her another version:

 In many villages of old Japan, the townsfolk suffered deeply and, often, the extremes of hunger and cold. It was vital to the survival of the able- bodied that those who were in their final hours of life be taken to the nearby foothills and left there to die. This sorrowful task belonged to the senior son.

 So it was, indeed, that a dutiful senior son, at the appropriate time imposed by illness and tradition, wrapped his dying mother in the family blanket reserved for such sad occasions. He lifted her gently, cradled her in his arms, and made his way to a sheltered place among the nearby foothills' rocks and underbrush.

 Lowering his mother to the ground, he kneeled beside her and tenderly made his final good-bye. She listened silently, breathing shallow, eyes closed. Finally, he stood, bowed deeply and, tears in his eyes, turned to leave.

 'Wait, my son.' Her voice was barely a whisper. 'Do not forget the blanket. The day will come when it will be needed for another and, in time, for you.'

 TURN-THE-PAGE STORIES

 A grandmother told me how she sometimes became part of a story to her very young and distant grandchild. She wrote:

 I audiotape the story and mail the book to him along with the cassette,' she wrote, 'but there's more to it than that. In recording, when I get to the end of a page, I talk about the illustrations on that page, and then say 'turn the page'. He loves this part and tells his Mom that he wants to listen to Grandma's 'turn the page' stories. When children are too young to read by themselves, they can follow along independently when you tell them on the tape when it's time to 'turn the page.'

 RECORD YOUR ALBUMS

 Inquiries I've received from too-faraway grandparents include audio taping stories, family lore and anecdotes, especially family history. Several commented that talking was easier for them than writing.

 In my responses I told about the time and circumstances that I had taped a commentary to our family's photo and document album, and how I went about it. For almost 40 years my wife and I, and before they left for college, our children, moved about the United States and the world, working and living our lives. We had accumulated a fair number of photos and documents over the years; they were important parts of our family history.

 During those active years, family archives were low priority. During periods of relative quiet we reminded ourselves to organize our records, add notes on the reverse sides of photos and important documents, and file them away in albums. As with most families, my wife had all the names, dates, places, and the why and how details catalogued and stored in her mind. We thought we had plenty of time. We did not.

 Months after the tragedy, when I was able to focus my thoughts again, one of my many tasks was to gather the cartons, shoeboxes and envelopes of photos and documents. I spread them across every available clear space and tried to make sense of the lot. Many, from past generations, were scenes from the early part of the twentieth century and before. I separated the collection into two groups: Group One: preceding our meeting and marriage, and Group Two: our life together and those who became a part of it.

 Group One went into albums as Part A: my wife before we met and her side of the family, and Part B: the same for me and mine. I arranged Group Two (our married life) into collections according to the places where we had resided. The result was many sections.

 Organizing the material in each section chronologically, I inserted them into the albums and numbered each photo, document and page. I identified each album sequentially on its spine with a gold foil letter from a packet purchased at a supermarket.

 Setting up my tape recorder, I opened the first album. Contemplating the first two facing pages, I recorded what I was going to do in a general introduction, then waded into the narration: photographs, documents, and the flooding memories. Nothing fancy, low key, free association.

 The first volumes dealt with people of whom I knew little, so my comments were brief and sketchy. When I reached familiar ground, my remarks were detailed: 'Picture 4 on Page 12 was taken in August of '52 when we lived in beautiful downtown XYZ. Our house is on the right; in the foreground is A, B and C, and coming down the walk is the D family: H, I and J. Soon after the photo was taken, by K, we all drove to AA, visited the city of BB, and had lunch at CC. It was that afternoon that the ZZ incident occurred, and about which I've often talked. For those of you who haven' heard the story, here's what happened....'

 And so, far into the night and for days and nights afterward. The task is done, and the archives are ready to pass along to the next generation.

 Whenever the subject comes up with others, or when I speak to groups, I urge against putting off this task. We all share in the two great mysteries: mortality and uncertainty. Among the treasures we leave behind are our memories, especially those of family and happy times.

 NO ANSWERS

 Occasionally, among the letters I received, was one that reflected deep disappointment and anguish. The writer had tried to contact a grandchild - or a grandparent - who was too faraway geographically or beyond a barrier of circumstance. There were no answers.

 A man in his eighties wrote that he had a couple of dozen grandchildren and great-grandchildren scattered around the world. Not one had written to him or telephoned, either on their own or in response to his letters and gifts. He was a widower, lived alone, and was the only remaining grandparent. He wanted his grandchildren to know that he was still alive. He had much to offer them, he said, about the family's history and traditions.

 'Should I just give up?' he asked.

 I suggested that he, as the only living grandparent, persevere and to not accept defeat. Whatever the past might have been, his advanced years called for him to be nonjudgmental, empathic, and healing. I suggested that his grandchildren have or will have families of their own and, in time, will also be grandparents. As elders, they will reflect on their lives and, with a perspective vastly different from their youth and middle years, recall that Grandpa, in his advanced years, had tried to reach out to them as a grandparent in deed as well as in name.

 In remembering, they would better understand their own roles as grandparents and their needs as elderly. Through their remembering he will become the 'grandpa' he had sought, long before, to be. Persistence, I reminded him - not giving up - was vital to his well being if not to his life. To stop trying would be to accept defeat. The elderly do not take defeats lightly; at some point the added weight accelerates their downward spiral.

 What he was doing for his grandchildren, I wrote, might have profound effects long after he was gone. Grandparenting is both here and now and for the long haul, and it influences grandchildren across their entire life span, not merely for the few years that grandparents were right there to offer guidance and hold them close.

 Grandchildren rarely realize it when they're kids - very often not even well into in their middle years - but the grandparents in their lives are forever. Most adults finally figure it out in their latter years. In time, grandkids figure it out, in their turn.

 A woman wrote to me about her pre-teenage daughter's repeated but futile attempts to communicate with her grandfather. He was in his eighth decade and resided in a distant state; the youngster was his only grandchild. Intelligent and caring, she had written to him regularly, sent holiday cards and gifts, and baked and mailed cookies. He did not acknowledge.

 When Grandpa did telephone, not often, he spoke briefly with the youngster's parents but avoided talking to her. He had not visited for a long time, lived alone, and was a loner with few friends. The mother's letter did not mention a Grandma, and appealed for a suggestion.

 I responded that the parent review grandfather's wellness and what his self-image might be in the light of his past. Had he always been as withdrawn as he now appeared to be? How had he related emotionally to his family when his children were young? Had the family been close, or had Dad been distant even then toward his children and their mother? If he had been a close and caring father, when did changes occur that were significantly different, as currently displayed toward his only grandchild?

 What might have brought the changes on? Advancing age can be an important factor: changes that occur during a person's eighth decade and beyond can be ravaging, especially if health had seriously deteriorated or a great personal loss experienced. If such was the case, Grandpa might feel strongly not to impose his difficult problems on Grandchild?

 'I don't know if Grandfather can be changed,' I wrote. 'I do believe that Grandfather needs your understanding and your compassion, and the same from your spouse or partner. Equally, but perhaps not aware of it, he needs the understanding and compassion of his Granddaughter. She keeps reaching out to him; I conclude her sense of compassion is strong. Compassion will not be a burden to her; to the contrary, reaching out strengthens her sensitivity and her developing maturity.

 In closing, 'I address to Granddaughter the 'suggestion' you asked for: 'Granddaughter, keep trying. Grandpa might not respond, but he hears you. Do not default; do not ever, ever give up.''

 GRANDPARENTS IN THE VIRTUAL CLASSROOM

 The following exchanges illustrate email interaction and communication between elementary school students in one community and older adults residing nearby or in various locations throughout the country. To ensure privacy of the children involved, I use first names only. Many older adults participated in this program, however, quoting from their letters, except where the remarks are most general, might be inappropriate, and so are not included. The manager of the school project is the teacher.

 From the teacher:

 I am a teacher in Southern California (land of many lost families) who is very desirous of establishing an intergenerational link (or many links) for my class.

 I think a large part of the problem our children and our society face is a sense of 'rootlessness'. I plan to devote a considerable part of my curriculum for this school year to developing a sense of self, family, community, national identity and global citizenship. I want my students to start knowing who they are, why they are that way and that they can influence the conditions they experience.

 I plan to use telecommunications as much as our school's limited resources will allow. I would like to communicate with other classes all over the U.S., especially from areas where ethnicity, cultural values and religion are known to vary from the majority. I would also like to involve as many age groups as I can. I will be interacting with college students, high school and middle school students as well as with all levels of my K-5 school.

 From an older adult:

 I would be pleased to work with your students. I have been quite close to (a high school) intergenerational project and believe that this sort of thing could help a lot of kids. ...another adult wrote:

 I will be honored to interact with your youngsters. Being an old newspaper reporter I write in short sentences. Being a little not-yet-grown-up myself I understand and speak their language. My grandmother gave me a vivid recounting of her trip from Missouri to Colorado in a wagon train. And her first trip back in a Model T and many other stories. I'll be glad to share. I love young, open, inquisitive minds.

 To which the teacher replied:

 You are wonderful! Thank you so much for being willing to interact with my students. I think your perspectives and insights will really enrich their understanding of the world and of life. I will do most anything to help my students expand their thinking and I really appreciate your willingness to help me! One more adult...

 I am fascinated with your project; it sounds and feels just right. I am a seventy-year-old retired physician who is enjoying his retirement. I believe we are all witnesses to our time; we are all making history which succeeding generations will read about in their texts. Real immortality, I believe, is in the passing of ideas from one generation to the next, in holding out our hands to help or to be helped-the gestures are much the same.

 Shortly afterward, from the teacher

 Ready or not, HERE THEY COME! Thanks for your patience. I hope you enjoy their introductory letters.

 From Jessie

 Hi my name is Jessie. I am in the fifth grade. I am a girl. My teacher is Mrs.--- . By the way, she is the best teacher there ever was and she's great at making it fun to learn!

 My favorite color is purple. What's yours? Do you have any pets? I have two dogs. I like to read about the past and the future. My cousin wants to be a Doctor. I want to be a Lawyer and yell at people. Allen says I'm good at that!

 From Daniel

 I'm ten years old. My name is Daniel. I love to draw and play football. I really love football. What do you like? Do you like to draw? I do. Maybe I can draw you a picture. I have a turtle and a dog and a snake for a pet. Do you have any pets? Write back please....

 From Joey

 How do you do? My name is Joey. Please tell me more about yourself and the newspaper business. My favorite sport is basketball. I like to play Nintendo.

 From Aubrey

 Hi. My name is Aubrey, and Amanda and I are sharing you. This is so exciting talking to you online. I'd like to know about you and your great grandparents. Oh! and thank you so much for the postcard, too. I know we are going to have so much fun online. Thanks.

 The teacher added: That's all for now! The children look forward to hearing from you all.

 From an older adult

 Dear Jessie,

 Thank you for writing your very nice little note to me. I think it was very well done and makes me want to write more. Mrs. ---- sounds like a neat teacher; I'm sure she is proud of you. My favorite colors are violet and purple-my wife likes those colors, too. We have a dog and a cockatoo that is getting old. All he does is scratch. He is hard of hearing, which makes for interesting times.

 I'm glad you like to read. The past gives you some idea about how other people did things, and gives you a clue of what to do in the future. The present is where we are now. We all make our own futures, which quickly, too quickly, become our pasts.

 Actually, (as a lawyer) yelling will lose you more cases than you will win. Lawyers have to be able to argue, that is, discuss the pros and cons of a case. It takes reasoning ability and a calmness of spirit and a love for justice. I'm sure you are good at a lot of things. You sound full of vim and vigor and enthusiasm. That's great!

 Please write to me what you are doing, about what you like to study and whatever else you would like. I will try to be more prompt in answering you. These last few days were hectic for me.

 Dear Jessica,

 It's nice to meet you this way. I'm glad to hear that Mrs. ---- is your teacher. She sounds great. I'm in good health, thank you for asking. I have three grown boys, but no grandchildren yet. We have an old dog that thinks he is our boss. We really like cats better, but our dog is too old and set in his ways to tolerate any cats.

 My youngest son and his girl friend have four cats between them. I like being a retired physician. I don't have to attend emergencies and I can get all the rest I want. When I go to the hospital it is to get medicines.

 I like your goals, they are very nice. If you change your mind as you get to look at different professions, that's OK. Whatever you decide, go for the best. A neo-natal nurse is a very good kind of person to be. I think I will be proud of you.

 Thank you for writing to me. I will look forward to your reply.

 Another...

 Hello Daniel.

 It was a pleasant time I had reading your letter to me. Thank you very much. Football and drawing are favorites of yours. I like football also. In fact, I did play football in high school and college. I was a fullback, but never got to handle the ball. In those days the fullback was like a guard or a tackle. All he did was block for guys who carried the ball.

 As for drawing, I'm not very good. In fact I'm terrible. Freehand drawing, that is. What I do instead of drawing is use my computer to do graphics and illustrations.

 As you work with computers during your school career I'll bet you'll love some of the creative things you can do with computer drawing programs. My favorite drawing software is called 'Arts & Letters'. It has a lot of pre-drawn illustrations. These are called 'clip art'. I can, for instance, call up an illustration of an airplane. Then I can do all sorts of interesting things to change how the airplane looks. It's a lot of fun.

 As for collecting things, I like funky menus. The funkier the better. Last month I was in a place in Wyoming where the menu was printed inside an old newspaper. The newspaper had stories that actually were in newspapers from the late 1890s, when trappers and explorers were just pushing into Wyoming territory. I got so interested in reading all those stories the waitperson had to come by twice to get me to order. The menu was in the middle of the foldout old paper. So if you ever run across a funky menu, send it my way. Thank you for your thoughtfulness.

 Thanks, and let's keep exchanging information. I enjoy hearing all about you, your school and your friends. And what you like and don't like. Turtles? Snakes? My goodness! I'll pass on both of those. I live in an apartment and no pets are allowed. But for several years, until he died, I had a cat, properly named BearCat. Bear hated to ride in the car. It was an annual battle of wills between Bear and me to get him his shots at the vet. I miss Bear.

 From the teacher, addressed to all who interacted with her students:

 Dear friends,

 My students have so enjoyed the exchanges we have had so far. I hope you will continue to write to us!

 My students are afraid you will forget about them and asked me to remind you that we are here and we love your messages. If we owe you letters, please forgive us; we will remedy that as quickly as we can! If you 'owe' us letters, please write.

 I leave you with this somewhat apt quote from LIVE AND LEARN AND PASS IT ON (a lovely little book given to me by a former student):

 'I've learned that young people need old people's love, respect, and knowledge of life, and that old people need the love, respect and strength of young people.' (The writer was 85 years old.)

 An elderly person wrote and asked, 'How do we get to write to children?'

 To which the teacher replied:

 Writing to the children is easy! Just jump right in and do it! They are really 'into' this now and will snap up your request. I would like to start having them each (29 of them) choose a particular friend here so I still need a larger pool of adult writers.

 What others have done is simply write and post a brief letter telling about themselves, some idea where they live, their interests, anecdotal family history that children might relate to, work background, etc.

 Thanks for your interest. We hope to hear from you soon!

 SHOW-AND-TELL EXPERT

 An elder, whether he or she is a biological grandparent or not, can be an excellent show-and-tell for a youngster. If you haven' tried it, give it thought, the experience is one of the best antidotes for boredom. The experiences range from the hilarious to the poignant. They deserve to be shared.

 During a visit to my distant grandchildren they invited me to accompany them to school to tell a few stories. On the appointed day, waiting in line with my granddaughter to enter her classroom, she glanced around to see if I was still there. Seeing me, she waggled her thumb at me over her shoulder and loudly proclaimed for all to hear, 'That's my Grandpa. He's my show-and-tell today!'

 Acknowledging students' stares and giggles with dignified bows to left and right, I trailed along into the classroom, was graciously received, told stories, responded to questions about how the stories came to be, and asked questions in return. I then repeated my performance in my grandson's class. Both sessions went quite well.

 During the storytelling and the discussions that followed, the youngsters were fascinated: they were sharing their thoughts with someone who really wrote stories and, equally important, they were talking with an elder and a grandpa (grandpa-surrogate) who had come to visit with them from beyond their everyday routines. I was reminded once more that grandparents were nearby for relatively few children, the reasons include circumstances as well as geography. For most, grandparents were distant, deceased, or unknown.

 Some time previously, a friend invited me to accompany him to a children's day care center in his city. He, along with several other elders, visited the center occasionally to interact with the youngsters. Conforming to the center's schedule, we arrived about half an hour before lunch. The children, about 25 three-to-four year olds, were still in the play yard. With permission from the play yard supervisor, we circulated from one group to another and participated in their activities where we could safely do so.

 After a while, the attendant assembled the children to return indoors, and we followed. Inside, the youngsters and elders took seats in a circle, the elders spacing themselves about equidistant from each other. To my surprise, it was story time, and we elders were to be the storytellers.

 The first storyteller told of a voyage she had taken as a child with her parents, and the second described a winter sleigh ride along a country lane. My friend, a retired aerospace engineer, spoke of airplanes and spaceships and stars in the skies. Throughout, the youngsters concentrated on the speaker, asked questions, voiced opinions, and, in many ways expressed their wonder and interest. The adults were getting as much from the telling as the children.

 I had been engrossed in observing the reaction of the children to the stories being told and I was unprepared for my part. Suddenly, it was my turn. What could I say that would have meaning to these young children? Searching my memory, I recalled that, when my children were young, I had often baked bread for our family. My story would be about baking braided bread, and I would pantomime the process and have all present join in.

 The children, and the adults as well, quickly entered the spirit of the story. When, with elaborate motions, I drew forth baking pans and supplies from an imaginary cupboard and placed them on a phantom work table, they did. When I cracked pretend-eggs into an enormous bowl that wasn't there, they did. Together, we vigorously mixed the virtual ingredients, dumped, floured, and kneaded the lump, centered it on the ghostly table, and raised our arms grandly above our heads and touched fingertips high up to match the height to which our magic dough had risen. Solemnly, we pounded the lump flat, cut it into thick strips, and rolled each chunk into a branch. Watching closely as I solemnly went about it, each child braided their three symbolic branches into their personal loaf, placed it in the shadow oven, and drew it out a moment later, sniffing the fragrance of freshly baked bread.

 Faces reflecting their deep concentration, the children were involved. Elders and youngsters had shared an experience, and it had been good. Having worked up our appetites, we were also ready for lunch.

 I've told this story on several occasions. Preparing for one telling, I rolled three packages of play dough of contrasting colors into eighteen- inch strips, wrapped each in the clear plastic used for food storage, and secured the plastic with adhesive tape. At the proper moment in the telling, and in elaborate pantomime, I withdrew each colored length, one at a time, from a briefcase beside me. Youngsters crowded forward, eyes wide and riveted. I held each colored wrap aloft for all to see, and continued with the game. The contrasting colors made the braiding process clearly visible and more understandable.

 I was invited by the Resource Teacher of a local elementary school to participate in their Authors and Illustrators Invitational. Each appearance would be a one man or woman show: a visiting writer or artist and an audience of children. Arrangements fell into place and each of the five sessions I conducted found me in the school library, seated in an ancient wooden grandpa-style rocking chair, with twenty-five to thirty second-to-fourth graders spread out before me in a half circle with their listeners on and tuned in.

 To each group I told a story or two, and encouraged questions about how my stories came to be. Planet Mars was the setting for one story (told here under another heading), and I mentioned that the plot and characters had been created by working out details with my grandchildren. Discussing collaboration in writing a story got us into long distance interaction between grandkids and grandparents. With another, middle school group, I dragged out one of my book-length manuscripts and explained the why and how of manuscript preparation and independent publishing and what might happen if (the big IF) the manuscript was accepted by a trade publisher. Questions, lots of questions, no two sessions alike.

 During a visit to my distant grandchildren, then nine-year old Joshua invited me to read a story to his class of about fifteen students during the lunch period. I would have about half an hour, following which the class would break for the schoolyard. Most of the youngsters knew me, as I'd read or told stories to them during previous visits. I was greeted with 'Hi' smiles and hand waves.

 The tables had been arranged in a U with me at the open end. Except for the few who hadn't seen me before, they knew I had difficulty hearing. As a reminder I pointed to my two hearing aids and asked the students to speak up when offering opinions or asking questions. This immediately brought comments from several that their grandmothers or grandfathers also wore hearing aids and they knew what was expected of them. To a few, my hearing device was something new. I removed the aid from my ear, opened the battery clip, and walked along the inside of the U to point out up close its major parts and their purpose, then demonstrated how the aid was installed and removed. I activated the acoustic feedback whistle by cupping the device in my palm and rendering a 'shave-and-a- haircut' whistle and this brought several laughs as well as questions. I was off to a good start.

 Rather than read or tell a story, I moved on to talk about the United States programs for exploring space, plans for a permanent space station and, in time, a base on the Moon and unmanned and manned flights to Mars. We speculated about the origin of the planets in the light of their relative sizes and orbits along the solar plane. I sketched a rough diagram on the blackboard. The students reeled off the planets' names, and recalled what they knew about this or that planetary satellite. One youngster wanted to be certain that the class was aware that Pluto's orbit was unusual in that it cut across the solar plane inside Neptune's orbit and back out into interstellar space. They knew a lot about the solar system and were proud and pleased to share their knowledge. It was a 'high tech' discussion.

 The last item on my agenda was to read several single-page stories, each closing with a dilemma confronting the lead character. The author's answers to the puzzles were included in the text, but before disclosing it I invited the class to suggest their own. They didn't hesitate, and supported their ideas with logic.

 As in our previous sessions which, for some students, were as far back as preschool, they felt that they were exchanging views with an elderly adult who had arrived from outside, who wrote stories as well as being a storyteller, and someone who was grandpa to another student in their class. The half- hour passed much too soon.

 Talks and readings I've attended over the years gave ample evidence of their value to speakers and listeners. Whether a show-and-tell visitor to a class presents a story, a memoir, an artifact, a skill, or an art form, almost all have something worth sharing with children. The problem is often in bringing the two distant age groups into each other's presence so that the dynamics of their interaction and mutuality can take place. Preparations, as well as the main event, add zest to the experience. A show-and-tell takes many forms, however they occur, one constant prevails: each youngster, while you and I are with him or her, is 'the grandchild.'

 Introducing yourself to a distant grandchild as a teller of stories or of family, cultural, or other anecdotes, or as someone who cares about him or her, calls for some initial groundwork. For instance, does your grandchild know you or only of you?

 With increased life expectancy and life experience, grandparents of this era have more to offer youngsters than ever before. As life expectancy increases, our children and grandchildren, in their turn, will have more to offer their succeeding generations.

 Grandchildren need easy access to grandparents. Casting the elderly into physically remote and psychologically passive roles works against the interests of grandchildren and their parents, as well as their grandparents.

 For grandparent-grandchild interaction to flourish, if it is to exist at all, grandparents need to take initiatives to reach out. This could call for unusual assertiveness to open lines of communication where there are none, and at keeping them open for a two-way flow.

 DON'T JUST RIDE OFF INTO THE SUNSET

 Recalling that far more assertive and influential times in their lives, the elderly insist on their right to age gracefully, usefully, and so far as they possibly can, their way. Rather than merely riding off into the sunset, older adults choose to brighten the horizons of their minds and lives through continued involvement in family, schools, work place, and community. Most elderly reject the diminution of their abilities and interests, although as they age into the seventh and eighth decades they may be compelled to restrict their direct involvement somewhat. Their capabilities, reduced by time and the tides, are nevertheless firmly based on direct on-the-job experience in managing households, family affairs, and professional and technical careers. With such knowledge and experience the elderly remain a vital national and world resource.

 PART TWO: FIRST STORIES

 Stories for three and four year old children are best told within their range of comprehension and imagination; stories that tell of things, activities and places to which the age group can readily relate. In fantasies, for example, I might animate familiar toys or modify characters from the youngster's favorite books and send them off on adventures that do not raise apprehension for the toy's or child's safety. Invariably, the stories close with the characters back in a secure and familiar setting.

 Beyond the immediate pleasure of a grandma or grandpa story itself, the shared grandparent-grandchild experience transforms over time into recollections of enjoyable times in one's early childhood. The process helps to lay a foundation for a positive relationship between the generations and opens doors to future confidences and dialogues as the grandchild matures.

 Stories from distant grandparents have a special aura. Young children remember the warm glow of family readings where Mom and Dad add their own versions of the story.

 GRANDPA TAKES A WALK

 Here's a simple letter-story that I mailed to my grandchild. Change it to one of your routine activities that you would like to share with Grandchild when next he or she visits. Add a bit of whimsy. When your story is read aloud to him or her at home, before the visit, it adds to the youngster's anticipation. It is morning. I look out my window. The sun is shining. It's a good time to take a walk. I put on my sweater, leave the house and close the door behind me. Off I go on my walk, up one street and down another.

 I come to a park. All about me are trees and shrubs and open fields. I start across the grass. A kite is high in the sky. The kite has red and white stripes, and looks like a bird with a wide tail.

 'Who is flying this enormous kite?' I wonder.

 I look about to see who is holding the string that stretches from the kite to the ground. What a surprise! It's a black and white spotted kitten. The kitten scampers back and forth with the kite's string gripped in its mouth.

 After watching the kitten for a while, I go along on my walk. I reach the other side of the park and see a row of houses. One house has a window shade raised and a flowerpot on the windowsill. The pot has a plant with a single yellow flower growing straight up.

 A boy and a girl are on the lawn in front of the house. The boy is pushing a wheelbarrow with a yellow shovel in it. The girl is holding a pink parasol, folded closed.

 'What will you put in your wheelbarrow?' I ask the boy.

 He lowers the wheelbarrow and points to a pile of sand in the driveway.

 'I'm helping my Dad move that pile of sand to the back yard,' he says.

 'We're filling our sandbox.'

 I turn to the girl.

 'What will you do with your parasol?'

 'When the sun is high,' she says, 'I will open my parasol. It will shade me.'

 I nod, wave good-bye to the boy and girl, and continue walking. I come to a hill and climb to the top. In the sky is a small white cloud. In the distance is a rainbow.

 I start for home. I pass the house with the boy and girl. The boy is pushing the wheelbarrow. It is filled with sand. He pushes it toward a walk leading to the back yard. His sister has her parasol open. It is shading her. She waves at me. I wave back.

 The yellow flower on the windowsill makes the house look cheerful.

 I come to the park. The black and white spotted kitten is still flying the

 kite. I stop to watch. It is a strange sight.

 I keep walking. In a little while I am back home. I had a nice walk.

 When you visit us, you and I will take a walk along those streets and across that same park. On the far side of the park we will look for the house with the flowerpot in the window, and for the boy and his wheelbarrow and the girl holding her parasol. We will climb the hill and look for a rainbow in the sky. If we are lucky, we might be surprised by a black and white spotted kitten-flying a kite.

 DOOBY AND KATRINKA HAVE AN IDEA

 A popular story theme portrays friendly animals at play in a familiar setting. The story may be enhanced by the animals cooperating to overcome a problem to which the youngster can relate.

 Dooby, the dog, has red fur, a droopy tail, and sad eyes. His friend, Katrinka, the cat, has striped gray and black fur, and a tail that usually sticks straight back with a little kink at the tip.

 Sometimes, Katrinka makes her tail stiff and points it straight up like a telephone pole. That doesn't happen very often. Katrinka always has a cheerful smile.

 Dooby wears a dog collar. Katrinka wears a ribbon around her neck. A tiny bell is attached to the ribbon. They live in a green house beside a road that disappears over a hill on one side and into a grove of trees on the other.

 Dooby and Katrinka are great friends, and they love to play together. They chase a ball in the back yard, roll in the grass, or chase each other around tree trunks. Almost every day they sit side by side and watch the sun set. Dooby and Katrinka like to take walks and explore.

 As we look in on Dooby and Katrinka this morning, we see Dooby dashing past Katrinka. Dooby barks as he runs, 'Katrinka, let's race along the road and have an adventure.'

 That is all Katrinka needs to get her to tumble out of her comfortable bed, stretch along the carpet, and dash out of the house after Dooby.

 Dooby is well on his way down the road. Katrinka runs fast and catches up. They race each other toward the hill, and then up one side and down the other.

 They pass a shopping center and an office building, and are soon at a park with tall trees and wide playing fields. In they go.

 Along one side of the park is a lake with rowboats, geese, ducks and swans. Dooby and Katrinka pay no attention to the rowboats, geese, ducks or swans.

 They have something else in mind: the children's playground. There it is, up ahead. Along one side of the playground are a climbing maze, swings, and a seesaw. On the other is a large sandbox where children can play and build sandcastles. The sand can also be shaped into hills with roads winding along their sides, and long twisty rivers that run from one end of the sandbox to the other.

 Dooby and Katrinka jump into the sandbox and chase each other from one end to the ether. They stop now and then to turn over pebbles and acorns with their noses or paws. They dig holes into which they push and bury the pebbles and the acorns.

 Suddenly Katrinka stops playing and looks around.

 'That's strange,' she says. 'Whenever we come to this park it's full of children. I usually see them with their mothers and fathers in rowboats on the lake, or along the shore feeding the ducks, geese and swans. I also see lots of children here on the swings and seesaws, or playing here in the sandbox. I don't see them now.'

 Dooby stops digging, walks to the edge of the sandbox and looks up and about.

 'You're right,' he says, and his tail droops.

 A drop of water strikes Dooby on his nose. It goes splat. Dooby squints down his nose at the water trickling from its tip. His eyes widen with surprise. Another drop strikes him, this time on the top of his head. Still another, on his ear.

 Three drops of water spatter Katrinka; two on her back and one on her tail. They both look up. The sky is full of gray, racing clouds. It's starting to rain.

 'That's why there are no children here,' says Dooby. 'Their mothers are keeping them indoors because of this rain.'

 Dooby and Katrinka continue their romping in the sandbox, but the sand is getting wet and harder to dig. They leave the sandbox and slip under a picnic table to get away from the rain. They shake the wet from their coats.

 'Being caught in the park during a rain is a sort of adventure, I suppose,' says Katrinka, 'but I like to be where it's dry.'

 They watch the rain falling. The raindrops are now larger and heavier.

 'I'd like to start for home,' says Katrinka, 'but I don't want to get my fur coat any wetter.'

 'I don't mind getting wet,' says Dooby.

 He thinks about how to keep Katrinka dry on the way home.

 'I know,' he says. 'Here's what we'll do.'

 Dooby explains his idea to Katrinka. She chuckles. Dooby also chuckles. They look at each other and their chuckles change to laughter. They laugh and they laugh.

 Dooby stands up. Katrinka, who is much smaller than Dooby, comes alongside and then slips in underneath him so that Dolby's body acts as an umbrella.

 They walk all the way home, heads high, looking very proud and pleased with themselves.

 It's still raining when they get home, but Katrinka didn't get more than a few drops of rain on her fur coat. She moves out of the way as Dooby shakes himself real hard, spraying water droplets in all directions.

 Dooby and Katrinka have a late breakfast and head for their corners to take naps.

 CIRCUS ADVENTURE

 A favorite setting for a children's story is the circus, and following an alligator that sneaks about the grounds searching for an adventure offers the listener a sense of involvement.

 The circus is in town. All the boys and girls and their mothers and fathers are excited by the posters and the circus parades along Main Street.

 Abercrombie, the alligator, wants to visit the circus. The morning the circus opens, Abercrombie rises from his nest in the riverbank mud, climbs on to his bicycle, and sets off for town. He has lots of friends at the circus, and they like to have him visit with them.

 Abercrombie also has a secret plan, but we won' talk about that yet. First we'll introduce a few of Abercrombie's friends.

 One of Abercrombie's close friends at the circus is JoJo, the juggler. JoJo juggles three plates or, sometimes, three bottles.

 Then there is Jingo, the jester, who struts along the circus Midway, looking important. He's OK, though.

 Abercrombie also has friends among the clowns who do somersaults and fancy rolls, and play violins as they do their tricks. He knows the elephants that ride around the ring on huge, funny looking bicycles and the jugglers and clowns and elephants that enjoy making children laugh.

 Finally, there is Bumble, the Bee. Bumble is the Circus Ringmaster. He buzzes from one place to another in the circus rink, telling people what to do and when to do it. He's bossy, but he's OK, too.

 Let's return to Abercrombie. He has been planning his secret adventure for a long time.

 We see him close to the circus tent with colored flags flying from the top. He sniffs the air and smells the popcorn, and he hears the booming of the drums and the blaring of the trumpets. Crowds of children and their parents are heading for the circus tents. Some of them stop to watch JoJo, the juggler and they laugh at JoJo jumping up and down, and twirling plates and bottles, catching them on their way up or down. It's lots of fun to watch.

 Abercrombie walks up to JoJo and whispers in his ear. Then Abercrombie leaves JoJo; he's in a hurry to begin his adventure-his secret adventure.

 Flattening down to the ground on his stumpy legs and arms, Abercrombie slithers into the big tent. All the boys and girls and their mothers and fathers and grandmas and grandpas fill the seats around the circular rink. They are concentrating on the clowns rolling and tumbling and standing on the heads and shoulders of other clowns. They are also watching the elephants ride their huge bicycles.

 No one notices Abercrombie, and that is the way Abercrombie wants it. He doesn't' want to be noticed until he is ready.

 Carefully, Abercrombie works his way around a circus wagon, looking back over his shoulder to be sure he is not seen. Quickly, he climbs over a large red and white striped box, slips around a corner and, fast as an alligator can, he wiggles up, over the side and into an orange-colored barrel.

 He waits inside the barrel. He peeks out through a bunghole in its side. He does not see or hear anyone close by, so he knows he has not been noticed. He grins, chuckles, and gleefully rubs his palms.

 Abercrombie takes another peek through the peephole. The way is clear. Taking a deep breath, he tightens his muscles, and leaps out of the barrel.

 Rearing up on to his hind legs, his heavy tail straight out behind him Abercrombie dashes into and across the circus rink. His stumpy arms wave furiously, and his head is high and wags from side to side for balance. His legs pump and pound so fast they look blurry, like bicycle spokes when the wheels turn fast.

 Bumble, the Bee, Ringmaster of the circus, sees Abercrombie racing across the ring and the direction in which he is heading.

 'Stop, stop,' he shouts.

 Abercrombie pays no attention. He reaches a ladder attached to a red and white pole on the side of the center ring. The top of the pole is close to the tent's peak, and that's really high. A ladder is fastened to the pole all the way to the top.

 Abercrombie wraps his stumpy arms around the pole and begins to climb the ladder. He climbs and he climbs. Finally, he is at the very top and stands on a tiny platform. Abercrombie leans out and twists his head to look at the crowd far below.

 The crowd is silent. They stare up, watching Abercrombie high up on the tiny perch. Bumble, the Ringmaster, stands at the bottom of the pole and shakes his fist up at him.

 Abercrombie's secret ambition is that ever since he first attending a circus he wanted to swing from a trapeze-a circus trapeze. The tiny platform to which he climbed has a trapeze fastened to its railing. The trapeze is now a few inches from where Abercrombie is standing.

 No one can stop him now. Abercrombie unties the trapeze, grasps the bar with both hands and takes a deep breath. He looks down at the crowd once more and gripping the trapeze tight, leaps from the platform. Away he G O E S!

 Oh, what an adventure! What AN ADVENTURE! Back and forth, back and forth from one side of the huge tent to the other.

 First, Abercrombie holds on with both hands, then he holds on with one hand and waves to the crowd below with the other. He twists and he turns, then holds to the bar with only his teeth and waggles both arms and stumpy hind legs. To cap that, he does somersaults and back flips, and then twists himself so that he catches the bar with his hands, his feet, and his teeth. Once, even with his tail!

 The boys and the girls and the mothers and the fathers and the grandmas and the grandpas watch Abercrombie from far below. They shout and laugh and clap their hands. They're having a wonderful time, too.

 Well, as you can imagine, after a while Abercrombie gets tired. It's time to rest. He takes a few more swings, does a somersault and a back flip, and catches the rail on the tiny platform where he started. He ties the trapeze back to the railing, and climbs down.

 When he steps away from the ladder at the bottom, the crowd welcomes him with smiles, shouts, and clapping hands. Even Bumble, the Ringmaster, is happy to see him and they shake hands.

 Abercrombie waves to the crowd and makes his way to where he left his bicycle. He heads for home.

 Arriving home, he enjoys his supper and, as he is very tired, he puts on his red pajamas and slips into his nest on the riverbank.

 As he closes his eyes he thinks, 'I sure had a fine adventure today.'

 DINOSAUR'S NEST

 The introduction to this next story is about an experience I had ten or so years ago at the Portland Museum of Science and Industry. My daughter was a volunteer at the museum at the time and, often, when I visited she invited me along to help at the museum too, which, of course, I did. A popular exhibit at museums everywhere is one that displays models of the large reptiles that roamed the Earth millions of years ago. During one of my visits to my grandchildren in Portland, Oregon, the local museum had such an exhibit. There were so many different reptiles in the exhibit that, for my convenience in stories I hoped to write, I assigned each a popular and easily pronounced-and remembered-name. The names appear in this story: there was Albert the Apatosaurus, Pete the Pentaceratops, Palmer the Parasaurolophus, Sally the Stegosaurus, and Alice the Ankylosaurus. The exhibit also included a Petrushka the Pterodactyl and a Tallyrand the Tyranosaurus.

 The museum's Albert the Apatosaurus had a baby daughter, Alexandra, and she slept in a doughnut-shaped nest after the museum closed for the night. As you can imagine, a doughnut-shaped nest, for even a toddler apatosaurus, is not the size of the bakery doughnuts with which you and I are familiar. Alexandra's doughnut-shaped nest was about ten feet across. The model had eighteen-inch diameter inflated tubes that enclosed a soft brown plastic floor.

 When children touring the museum saw Alexandra's nest they rushed to climb the tube, jump down inside, and land hard on the soft plastic floor. With hundreds of jumping children each day, four or five at a time, the soft plastic soon scuffed and frequently needed repair. Alexandra didn't care to see her nest abused like that, and I felt sympathy for her. Fortunately, I was able to help; my job was to be the museum's official Fixer of the Apatosaurus Nest's Floor. My tools and supplies were a large roll of aluminum-colored adhesive tape, a tape measure and shears. Twice each day I inspected and repaired Alexandra's nest.

 'Stand back for one moment, please.' I would say as I approached and identified myself to the jumpers. 'It is time to inspect the dinosaur's nest.'

 The youngsters gathered round as I removed my shoes, stepped across the inflated tube into the nest, lowered to my knees, bent, and carefully inspected the nest's floor. With elaborate gestures I inspected all surfaces and seams, measured the damaged areas with my ruler, cut the proper length strip from my large roll of duct tape, and pressed it into place.

 Children and mothers and fathers and grandparents came from nearby exhibits to observe the Apatosaurus Nest Floor Fixer at work. When the repairs were done I rose, stepped back over the side and out of the nest and waved to the jumpers, saying, 'OK, have at it!' And they did.

 My grandchildren were proud to see grandpa at work repairing a baby Apatosaurus's nest so that it would remain a safe and comfortable place to sleep after the museum closed for the day.

 Several times, as I made my way back from the nest to the shop in the basement below the museum I happened to glance up at Alexandra's dad, Albert. I think I saw him wink at me, as if to say, 'Thanks for fixing Alexandra's nest.'

 DINOSAURS? HAVING A BIRTHDAY PARTY?

 Albert, the Apatosaurus, lives with his mother and father in a huge forest at the edge of a swampy lake. Every morning, soon after the sun is up, Albert awakens, crawls out of his nest, and shakes himself to get the sleepy out of his eyes. Awake and stretched, Albert waddles down to the lake to munch the sweet grasses that grow along its shore. He has reached an age that he doesn't' need to be constantly watched over by an older Apatosaurus.

 This morning, when Albert awakens, he looks around to see if his friends, Pete, the Pentaceratops, Palmer, the Parasaurolophus, Sally, the Stegosaurus and Alice, the Ankylosaurus are also awake. They are, so Albert visits with them for a while. They chase each other around the trees of the forest, and then head for the lake to seek their breakfast.

 At the lake, they nibble at the tall grasses that grow along the shore, or in the shallow water. Now and then, the leaves of a bush or a tree look appetizing and become part of breakfast.

 Finished, Albert waves good-bye to his friends and heads off deeper into the forest. Albert likes to explore. He is also looking for another Apatosaurus like himself. He wants very much to find one about his age.

 It's a cool and pleasant morning. Albert comes to a meadow, crosses to the trees on the other side and continues on. Finally, he arrives at a lake that is almost as long and as wide as the lake where he had breakfast.

 The lake's shore is quiet and Albert looks about for a snack. He waddles into the water and lowers his long neck. He yanks up a mouthful of grasses and water plants and chews.

 Suddenly, he hears a splashing sound behind him. Turning his head he sees another, smaller Apatosaurus. Albert quickly finishes chewing, swallows, and smiles.

 'I'm Albert,' he says.' What's your name?'

 'Alexandra,' replies the smaller Apatosaurus. 'Where are you from, Albert?'

 'I live near the lake on the other side of the forest.' Albert waves his long tail in the direction of his home.' I was out exploring and came here to see if any neighbors moved in recently. I haven' seen you before. Are you new here?'

 'Yes, I am,' Alexandra replies. 'My Mommy and Daddy and I just moved here and we think we'll stay. It's quiet in this forest, and the lake's shoreline has plenty of the food we like. I hope that we'll remain here for a long time.'

 Albert tells Alexandra about Peter, Palmer, Alice and Sally. 'Oh, I want very much to meet them.' Alexandra is excited at the thought of making new friends.

 'I'm sure they want to meet you, too.' Albert wiggles his tail as he speaks. 'Do Apatosaurus children play coconut ball where you came from?'

 'Sure do,' Alexandra says.

 Albert stretches his long neck and plucks a large coconut from the top of a nearby palm tree. He flips the coconut over his shoulder and as is falls he bats it toward Alexandra with his tail.

 Alexandra, who has studied ballet, is well balanced. She catches the ball easily in her mouth. Tossing it high with a graceful twist of her body she bats it with her tail in a high arc back to Albert. He dashes toward the coconut and, with a tail flip, returns it for another round.

 Albert and Alexandra play with the coconut ball for a while. They stop for lunch along the shore, and then rest and chat.

 When the day moves into afternoon, Albert says good-bye to Alexandra and promises to return soon. They are friends.

 'My birthday is coming soon and my mother and father are giving me a party,' Alexandra says as Albert turns to leave. 'Will you come to my party and will you bring along Pete, Palmer, Alice and Sally?'

 'Of course I'll come,' Albert says as he waves at her over his shoulder, 'and I'll tell my friends about you. I'm sure they'll want to come to your party.'

 Albert heads for his home near the lake on the other side of the forest.

 Alexandra rushes home. She tells her parents about Albert, and they're pleased that Alexandra has found a friend.

 Alexandra has her supper and plays with her toys. Then, feeling tired, she climbs into the nest her father had just lined with fresh twigs and leaves, and is soon asleep. When Albert arrives home he tells his friends about Alexandra. They are excited to hear that another dinosaur family has moved into their neighborhood, and that a birthday party was coming soon.

 Of course they accept Alexandra's invitation.

 On the day of the party Albert, Pete, Palmer, Sally and Alice race each other to Alexandra's home on the far side of the forest.

 Colored streamers, bunting, balloons and 'Happy Birthday' signs stretch between trees. Cookies and candies for Alexandra's friends are in dishes on tables and gifts are stacked everywhere.

 Children from different reptile families play games among the trees, sing songs, and swing on an enormous rubber tire hanging from a tree branch. Near the tables, other reptile children laugh and eat cookies, candies and ice cream, and drink sodas or milk.

 Albert invites Alexandra to meet his friends. Alexandra's father snaps their picture with his camera. The camera is the kind that makes instant pictures, so he passes them to the guests as soon as they are dry.

 'These are very interesting pictures,' says Albert. 'Please take some more and let us have them to show to our parents?'

 'Of course,' says Alexandra's Daddy. He takes many snapshots of Albert and the others and gives a few to each to take home.

 After the children have played for a while Alexandra's mother slaps her long tail on the ground to get their attention.

 'Let's all gather around at the table,' she calls to the children.

 As everyone moves toward the table Alexandra's father carries out a huge, three-layered chocolate cake with whipped cream all over the top and sides. The cake has four candles on it for Alexandra's fourth birthday.

 When the cake is on the table Alexandra stretches her neck forward slightly, takes a deep breath, and with a single whoosh blows out all four candles.

 Everyone shouts 'Happy Birthday, Alexandra!' and they waddle-dance around the table. Alexandra is very happy. Her daddy plays on his fiddle.

 It's time for Alexandra to open the many gifts that her friends and parents piled on the table.

 Alexandra unwraps a special Apatosaurus doll that goes 'beep' when she squeezes it, a dinosaur doll's nest lined with tiny leaves and twigs, and a blackboard on a tripod with different colored chalk sticks. There are many other gifts, too. Alexandra holds her gifts up so that everyone can see them. Then, with a big smile, she hugs her mother and father and thanks her guests for their gifts and for coming to her party.

 All too soon, the party is over. Time to start for home. The children wave good-bye to Alexandra as they leave. Sally and Alice hug Alexandra.

 'We must see each other again,' says Alexandra.

 'Yes, real soon,' says Sally.

 Sally and Alice nod.

 Albert is sorry the party is over. He waits until the very end, when all the others have left.

 'Thank you for inviting us,' he says to Alexandra. 'I'll come again soon and we'll play coconut ball. Would you like that?'

 'Oh, yes,' she replies. 'I'd like that very much.'

 With a wave of his tail Albert turns toward home. He catches up to Pete and Palmer, who are waiting for him. They all run ahead and, with Sally and Alice, reach their side of the forest by late afternoon. They wave good-bye to each other as they separate to go to their family nests.

 When Albert reaches his nest he tells his mother and father about the good time he had at Alexandra's Birthday Party. He shows them the pictures Alexandra's Daddy gave him.

 Then Albert moves to his part of the nest, curls his tail around to cover his toes, and falls asleep.

 The sun sinks behind a low hill and night settles on the forest.

 PART THREE THE PALM TREE STORIES

 Realizing that Grandpa does well with stories, Grandchild wants to share in the process. One way for Grandpa to get the youngster involved is to have him or her suggest settings and names for characters.

 Often, negotiations for story and character development, in themselves, become family stories and anecdotes; e.g., how a story came to be, and why and how it developed in this or that fashion. Injecting such background as introduction to a series gives a sense of involvement to the immediate and extended family, and to future generations that might come across a copy in an old trunk or tucked away in an obscure corner. As the grandpa-grandchild discussions move along, and characters, settings and scenes take on substance, Grandpa or Grandma, whichever is the storyteller, may be transformed into a character in the story. I found a way to handle this, and remain inconspicuous, is to assume the role in the story as listener or recorder of adventures narrated by the leading characters.

 In this series, Grandpa and Grandchild set the stage for the storytelling. That being done, Grandpa steps back and takes on the role of listener, rarely injecting himself into the narration. Throughout, Grandchild is aware that Grandpa in close by.

 PUT PALM TREES IN YOUR STORIES

 'Grandpa, where are you, Grandpa.'

 The call reached me from down the long hallway. The sounds of scuffling slippers grew louder and, a moment later, Granddaughter's curly head peeked around the edge of the kitchen doorway.

 'What are you doing, Grandpa?' she asked.

 'Coffee,' I replied, peering in her direction over the rim of my glasses. 'Morning, coffee.'

 'Oh,' she said, standing in the doorway.

 Her eyes focused on the scene beyond the kitchen window. The broad fronds of palm trees close by outside waved about furiously in the brisk November wind. There are no palm trees in the city where Granddaughter lives, and having arrived late the previous evening she had not seen the ones near our home.

 Granddaughter stared. Dashing past me to the window, she placed her hands on the sill, and jumped to see out.

 'When you visit us next year,' I said, 'you will be taller, and see over the sill without jumping.'

 'I want to see now,' she demanded, reaching up. 'Pick me up, Grandpa.'

 With Granddaughter seated on my forearm and her arms wrapped around my neck, we stared through the window. The palm nearest the window bent before a gust and straightened. The fronds of two palms across the driveway thrashed atop long, graceful trunks that leaned, straightened, and yielded again to the boisterous wind.

 'Grandpa,' Granddaughter said, turning to look at me, 'tell me a story that has palm trees in it.'

 Her eyes gleamed mischievously as she reached up to stroke my liberal expanse of bare dome. She knew I couldn't resist that gesture.

 'We've got a busy morning ahead of us, young lady,' I said. 'Here's what I'll do. I'll write a letter to you with a story in it about palm trees. Then Mother or Dad will read it to you and Grandson. OK?'

 Granddaughter stared at the three palm trees and their gyrating tops.

 'I want more than one story,' she smiled as her hand patted and stroked.

 'Hm,' I grandpa-growled, 'you're a hard bargainer, my dear.'

 'Gampa, Gampa,' an impatient shout burst down the hallway.

 Pajama-clad Grandson tore into the dining room like a tornado and climbed chairs. Too small to notice what was happening outside, he pounded a seat with tiny fists. His mind was on something far more important.

 'French Toast, French Toast,' he demanded. 'I want French Toast. Now!'

 Granddaughter twisted from my arms, further talk about stories replaced by this much higher priority. 'Me, too!' she shouted, joining the pounding.

 Pots and pans rattled, dishes and bowls clattered, refrigerator doors slammed, and utensils baton-waved in all directions. Grandpa had launched into his traditional and celebrated French Toast Extravaganza that began early each Thanksgiving Day morning.

 Thanksgiving is past. The grandchildren are back home in a distant city. Grandpa has a promise to keep.

 Creating a Setting

 'Where will the story take place?

 'Where there are palm trees, of course.'

 'What kind of palm trees? For example, there are coconut palms, and there are date palms, and there are also banana palms.'

 'Grandpa,' impatiently, 'I want them all!'

 That's one decision.

 'Should I put the palm trees on a steeple on top of a tall skyscraper?'

 'Just a minute now, Grandpa, who ever heard of palm trees growing on a steeple on top of a skyscraper? That would be silly. Forget it.'

 'How about in the middle of a freeway?'

 'C'mon, Grandpa, be serious. A palm tree wouldn't last long in the middle of a freeway. Cars would bump into it all day long. Nope, freeways are out, too.'

 'By the sea? By the sea? By the beautiful sea?

 'Hm, that's a possibility.' Long pause. 'OK, let's go with it.'

 'Check. Keep in touch. Over and out.'

 'Grandpa? '

 'Yes? '

 'You and Grandma. Love ya.'

 A picture began to form. Three palm trees close to each other on a beach. They have thick trunks and huge fronds. One palm tree is a coconut palm, another is a date palm, and the third is a banana palm.

 Little waves tumble over each other to the shore, and some distance behind them are rolling waves and a white, churning surf. Beyond the surf is the endless sea. A summer breeze is blowing, raising whitecaps. Two small islands are far out where the sea meets the sky. Add soft, fleecy clouds. The sky, even with the clouds, is empty. Skies and birds go well together. There! Three gulls, flying in from the left, low, skimming the waves.

 What's missing? Aha, children! A boy and a girl, about your age. What are their names? That's your job, Granddaughter. Ask Mother which letters to draw on a sheet of paper to spell them out. Put the paper into an envelope, and ask Mother to address the envelope to Grandpa. Don't forget the postage stamp.

 The names arrived in this morning's mail. 'Suzanne' and 'Roger' fit our characters well. I see you've named their adventures 'The Palm Tree Stories.' Fine, that's when we'll call them.

 ALONG THE RIDGE OF THE DUNES

 One adventure is to explore the beach to search for seashells; another is to build sandcastles. Still another is to watch the sea gulls and pelicans dive and fish for food.

 Suzanne and Roger enjoy watching the pelicans. They often watch the large, clumsy-looking birds fly low above the water until they see a fish beneath the surface. The pelican slips into a dive, folds its wings to cut the water cleanly to reduce the shock of hitting, disappears in the spray and rises with the fish in its beak pouch. The bird flies off with the fish to eat it, or to feed it to the baby pelicans. That's a little adventure for Suzanne and Roger.

 There are also big adventures. Those happen when Suzanne and Roger and their mom and dad go sailing. Sailing often takes them far out to where the islands meet the sea. There they hike and explore the hills, and at night, sleep in a tent ashore or in bunks on the sailboat. Those are real adventures and we'll be talking about them soon.

 I was thinking of Suzanne and Roger this morning and wondered what they were doing. I pictured them on the beach in the bright sunlight, walking toward where sand dunes had been built up by the wind and waves.

 The dunes slope down to the beach, and tall reeds grow on the sides and along its ridges. When the wind blows, the reeds lean far over and rustle.

 Birds build nests among the reeds. Sometimes, small animals rush up or down the dunes and through the reeds on their way from here to there, or from there to here. The dunes are among Suzanne's and Roger's favorite places for exploring.

 I walked to the beach. Suzanne and Roger were waiting at Three Palms. They had a story for me. Suzanne told the story just as if it was happening right then.

 Suzanne's story: When we get to the beach, we climb to the ridge of a dune. The wind is a gentle breeze and the reeds make a soft, sushing sound.

 I see a movement in the reeds.

 'Roger, Roger,' I shout. 'Come quick. We have company.'

 Roger dashes over. I'm on my knees, separating the reeds with my hands to see better. Roger helps and we see a baby jackrabbit.

 We stare at the jackrabbit and don't move. We don't want to frighten the baby jackrabbit and, of course, the baby jackrabbit doesn't' want to frighten us.

 A rustling sound comes from behind a clump of reeds off to the side, and out jumps a fully grown jackrabbit. It's as big as a cat, but has long, flapping ears and a cotton-ball tail, which cats don't have.

 The grown jackrabbit rushes to the baby and, with its mouth, grips the back of the baby's neck and lifts it up. This must be the baby's mother, because that is the way most parent animals carry their young. It doesn't' hurt the baby, and the mother does feel better knowing exactly where her baby is.

 The adult jackrabbit looks up at us. All this time we are very still. I don't think the jackrabbit is frightened of us, but I suppose she has other things to do and can' just stand around visiting.

 After looking us over for a moment or two, the jackrabbit wriggles her ears, turns away, twitches her cotton-ball tail and jackrabbit-jumps into the reeds. She and her baby are on their way from one place to another. I guess only the jackrabbit really knows where and why.

 'I hope they find their way to where they want to go,' Roger says, 'and I hope the baby stays close to it's mother. A baby can get lost among these reeds.'

 'The mother jackrabbit knew where to find the baby,' I said. 'She must be pretty smart. Don't you think so?'

 'Yes,' Roger agreed. 'She's smart, all right.'

 We walked back to the palms and, from there, home.

 GONE SAILING

 I strolled down to Three Palms and looked about. Suzanne and Roger weren't' there. Maybe they're at the sand dunes looking for the floppy-eared baby jackrabbit and its mother. I walked to the dunes to look for them. They weren't' there, either.

 Climbing to the top of a sand dune, I looked around. Two big, white clouds drifted across the deep blue sky, pushed by the wind. The wind rustled the high reeds along the ridge, and they sounded like whispers. A black and white gull flew low above the water, swooped, rose with a fish in its beak, and flapped up and away.

 I looked out toward the horizon and saw a sailboat dipping across the waves. It was outward bound toward the islands. It looked like the sailboat that belonged to Suzanne's and Roger's parents. Suzanne and Roger must have decided to go sailing that day, and took their Mom and Dad along for company.

 I looked for them each morning for the rest of the week, but they hadn't returned. I supposed they were having a long vacation.

 Finally, this morning, when I arrived at Three Palms, Suzanne and Roger were there, waiting for me.

 'Hello, Suzanne. Hello, Roger,' I said. 'It's good to see you back. I missed you.'

 'Oh, we' re glad to be back at Three Palms,' said Suzanne.

 'We sure are,' Roger added. 'We had a real fine time sailing and visiting on the island. We hiked in the hills and did other things.'

 'Did you have any adventures?' I asked.

 'Yes, we did,' said Suzanne. 'Would you like to hear about them?'

 'I sure would.'

 'We had many adventures,' Suzanne said, 'We couldn't possibly tell them all today. How about my telling one today, and then Roger telling one tomorrow, and then me again the next day, and so on?'

 'Sounds reasonable,' I replied.

 We sat on the sand under the date palm. I leaned back against the tree. A date fell and bounced off the top of my head.

 'I'm glad we didn't sit under the coconut palm,' I said, rubbing my head where the date had struck. We all laughed.

 'OK, Suzanne.' I shifted about to get myself comfortable. 'Let's hear about the first adventure.'

 'I'm going to tell our adventures just like they're happening right now,' Suzanne said.

 'That's fine with me,' I said.

 These are the stories told to me by Suzanne and Roger. I'm writing them down using the same words as Suzanne and Roger as we sat on the beach at Three Palms.

 DOLPHINS ALONGSIDE

 It's a beautiful morning to go sailing, Suzanne began the telling. It' s Dad's vacation and we're going to Snug Harbor.

 We load Snow White-that's the name of our sailboat, you know-with suitcases and boxes of food. We take our special toys and lots of other things for a long stay. When we are all ready, we cast off.

 When we're far enough away from the slip, Dad hoists the sail. The breeze fills the sail and we head out to sea.

 Roger and I sit with Dad at the helm to steer and Mother goes below to make sandwiches. We all wear life jackets. That just makes good sense, like wearing seat belts when you're riding in a car.

 The sea is gentle and we're moving right along. Roger is looking out to sea as Dad and I talk.

 Suddenly Roger shouts and points.

 'Look. Dad. Suzanne. Look.'

 'Where?' I ask. 'What do you see?'

 'There, there,' Roger shouts, and points again.' Do you see them?'

 'See what?' I'm excited, but I don't know what to look for. 'Tell me what you're pointing at, Roger.'

 'Dolphins. They're jumping out of the water and diving back in again. There. He points off the bow.

 I look again, real hard, and I see what Roger is pointing at. A school of dolphins, leaping.

 'Dolphins are mammals', Dad says, 'and different from fish. They're also very intelligent and friendly. Wave at them. Maybe they'll come closer and leap near the Snow White.'

 So Roger and I wave at the dolphins and call out to them. 'Come on over,' we shout.

 They must hear us because they change direction and jump and dive in our direction. When they're close they turn and swim alongside. Mother comes up and holds on to us as we lean against the rail and wave and call out to them.

 The dolphins stay with us most of the way to the island. About a mile offshore they turn away. We're sorry to see them leave. I guess it's time for them to head for home.

 'That was our first adventure of the trip. Would you like to hear about another one?' 'Sure would,' I said.

 'OK,' said Roger. 'Let's meet here tomorrow, and I'll tell about our sailing into the harbor.'

 SNUG HARBOR

 Today was Roger's turn, sailing into Snug Harbor.

 Roger spread a map of the island to help follow the stories.

 After the dolphins leave, we go forward to Snow White's bow. We watch the shoreline slip by as we near the harbor entrance.

 We're sailing east around Singalong Point. The sea is choppy as the breeze picks up.

 We go aft to the stern. We're helping Dad and Mother do all the things that are important when a sailboat enters a harbor.

 Dad gives Suzanne and me important jobs: the port and starboard watch. Suzanne has the port side and I have starboard. In sailing talk the 'port' side is on the left when you're facing the bow or forward, and 'starboard,' is on the right, also when you're facing forward.

 We're in the channel that leads into the harbor, and we'll soon need a place to drop the boat's anchor. 'Dropping anchor' are more sailing words. They mean about the same as setting a car's brakes when the car stops in the driveway and the motor turned off.

 Suzanne is watching to port, looking for drifting debris and logs, and to make sure the boat doesn't' cut too close to the island. I'm taking care of starboard, watching for the same things, and for traffic heading our way from the open sea.

 Mother is standing by to lower the sail when Dad gets Snow White to the mooring. Mooring, used this way is like a parking space. Dad is steering the boat and trying to watch everything.

 I see a speck on the horizon. It gets larger fast, coming in our direction.

 'Dad,' I shout, 'motorboat. Big.'

 'Where away?' Dad shouts back.

 'Off the starboard bow,' I yell back and point. Dad and Mother look. Suzanne looks, too, but for only half a second, then she goes right back to her job, which is very important.

 'Looks like she's really coming fast,' Mother warns.

 'You're right,' Dad says, raising his binoculars to examine the motorboat.

 'It' s a tour boat from the other islands,' Dad says, 'She'll tie up at Snug Harbor pier. With all those extra people on board this place may get crowded. We'd better get in as quickly as we can and find a good place to pitch our tents.'

 Dad tells Mother to keep the sail spread and the lines taut to take as much wind as possible. Soon we're passing the Snug Harbor pier and wave to a man who is fishing. He waves back.

 After our boat passes the pier we're in the sheltered part of the harbor. Mother lowers the sail, and we drop anchor near the shore next to the flagpole. The tourist boat pulls in close behind us and ties up to the pier.

 We load our camping supplies into our dinghy and row to the beach. As soon as Suzanne and I step ashore we dash along the trail to the campsites and pick a good site for our tents.

 Mother and Dad follow us with the gear. Working together, we pitch the tents, and get our food stored so it will be out of the way of animals. Soon, we're settled for the first night of our vacation.

 'Well,' I said when Roger finished. 'That sounds like an exciting start. What happened afterward?'

 'Let's meet here tomorrow,' Suzanne said, 'and we'll talk about it.'

 HIKE

 Think back to the last story. Roger finished telling about Snow White's arrival at Snug Harbor and the race to the campsite. They did locate a real cozy campsite and settled in for the night. Now it's Suzanne's turn to tell what happened afterward. Today's story will be in Suzanne's words.

 We pitch our tent in an open space just across the trail from where a girl is flying a kite. It's late afternoon by the time we're settled, so Dad makes a campfire and Mother cooks our dinner over the flames. We sit around the campfire and balance our plates on our laps.

 After we finish we help Mother and Dad clean our campsite, and get rid of leftovers. The sky is still light, so we take a hike.

 Dad leads the way single file along the trail, then Roger, me, and Mother at the end. In that way Roger can watch Dad, just in case he needs help, and I take care of Mother. Well, Dad and Mother do sort of look after us, too. Anyhow, off we go.

 Dad heads toward Mount Nokomis, a low hill a short distance from the campsite. We push through tall grass and around bushes and rocks. Soon we're climbing the slope of Mount Nokomis. I hear a rustling sound behind a bush.

 'What' s that noise?' I turn to Mother and whisper.

 'I really don't know,' Mother says. We look to where the rustling is coming from but can' see anything unusual. Meanwhile, Dad and Roger stop and Mother and I catch up to them. We stand close, the four of us, and look into the bushes.

 There it is again. The rustling sound is like leaves and branches gently shaking. We can tell from which clump of bushes the sounds are coming. Dad steps between us and the bushes. Roger and I stand right behind Dad to protect him. Mother is very close.

 The rustling is louder. From out behind a bush steps a doe. We relax. Whew!

 The doe isn't very big and it's friendly but shy. It looks us over and wiggles it's ears in our direction to hear any noises we might make. She also lifts her head to smell the air. Deer have very sensitive noses for smelling danger, and that's what the doe is doing. She's trying to decide if we're also friendly. We stand quietly so as not to alarm her. After a while the doe moves a little way toward us and smells the air again. I guess it's satisfied because it comes close.

 Slowly I reach out and touch the doe's fur. She doesn't' seem to mind. The fur feels firm and smooth.

 After a short while the doe moves away. It really is getting late, you know, and the setting sun changes the day into evening. The doe needs to find a place to spend the night. Wiggling her ears and flipping her tail, she moves off and disappears into the bushes.

 We start back to the campsite and make our way along the trail down the side of Mount Nokomis. Soon we're back at camp.

 Dad lights a lantern and gets the campfire going. We put sweaters on, sit on logs next to the fire and sing camping songs. The girl with the guitar joins us, and so do other campers and everyone joins in the singing. The moon and stars shine in the sky and it's very peaceful.

 Suzanne and Roger rose, waved to me, and headed for home.

 'Don't forget to be here tomorrow,' Roger shouted. 'We had another interesting experience the next day.'

 'I'll be here.' I waved back.

 VISIT WITH TWO SEALS

 True to their word, Suzanne and Roger arrived at Three Palms the following day. We sat under the banana palm, and Roger told the next story.

 This is the day for the hike to Point Nemo, on the other side of the island. It will be an all day trip, so we start early.

 Mother packs our knapsacks with sandwiches, cookies, and cans of juice while Dad inspects our hiking gear, like for extra socks, sweaters, towels and things like that. We're ready and off we go. Dad takes the point, then, in line, Suzanne, me, and Mother.

 Instead of the trail that winds up and around the top of the island, we head straight across, passing other campsites. We say hello to people camping along the trail.

 We stop to listen to a woman strumming a guitar. She is singing 'On top of Ol' Smokey....' We gather round and join in the singing. We wave good-bye and move along.

 We see a man with a camera; he is taking photographs of flowers. We stop to watch. We leave him and return to the trail where it opens into a field. We follow the trail across a hill to Point Nemo, and from there to the Point Nemo Lighthouse.

 At the lighthouse it's time for lunch. Dad spreads a big checkered cloth on the ground and Mother takes the sandwiches and drinks from our knapsacks. We have lunch, rest, and sing songs. It's time to explore.

 Climbing down to the beach near the lighthouse we run to the water's edge. Suzanne and I take our shoes off and race each other through waves that tumble over themselves on their way in. After a while we stop running so that our breath can catch up with us. Standing at the water's edge we shield our eyes with our hands, and look toward Seal Rock.

 Brown shapes swim in the sea. They wriggle out of the water on to the narrow strip of sand below the rocks. They're seals. More seals wriggle out of the water. They're brown and of all sizes.

 They bark. Have you heard a seal bark? It sounds like they have something stuck in their throats. They really don't, you know. That's just their way of talking to each other.

 'Look, Roger, look,' Suzanne calls and points.

 A seal is heading toward the beach nearby. Reaching shallow water, the seal raises its head, looks around and sees us. I think it knows we're friendly because it comes up on to the beach. The seal is followed closely by a much smaller seal. It's a mother seal and her cub.

 Suzanne and I want to get closer to the two seals, but we know that if we move we might frighten them away. We watch and don't move.

 The cub goes to its mother and they play in the sand. Then the mother seal cuddles and nurses the cub. In a little while they head back to the water's edge. The two seals look back at us. I must have imagined it, but for a moment I think I see the cub wave its flipper toward us. Anyhow, I think they know we're their friends.

 The seals slip into the water and swim off in the direction of Seal Rock. Soon they disappear among the whitecaps. They've gone home.

 Suzanne and I walk back to Mother and Dad sitting on the beach. They were watching, too. Dad talks to us about seals and other animals of the land, the sky, and the sea, and how they and we all fit together on Planet Earth.

 We start back to camp. By this time the sun is starting down. It's late afternoon. There is still light when we arrive at our campsite. Dad lights the campfire and Mother makes supper. After we've eaten, and clear away the leftovers, we sit around the fire. Dad tells more stories about sailing and long hikes. Then we sing songs.

 We stood, stretched, and walked toward the dunes.

 'Any more stories?' I asked.

 'Oh, yes,' Suzanne replied. 'The best is yet to come. Telling our adventures is such fun we're going to make it last for a few more days.'

 'Tomorrow?'

 'Tomorrow.'

 NOISES IN THE NIGHT

 The next morning we're back under the palms. Suzanne takes up the story.

 This is about what happened late the same night we hiked to Point Nemo. As with the other nights, we get into our pjs, brush our teeth and wash our faces. We hug and kiss Mother and Dad and I pick up our flashlight. The tent doesn't' have electric lights, so we have an electric lantern that we hang from a hook in one of the wooden rods that hold up the tent.

 We take our flashlight along to see by as we get ready for bed. As we move the light around it makes shadows on the tent walls. The shadows jump in all directions, stretch tall and shrink short, first on one wall, then on the other.

 Roger waves his arms, jiggles his fingers and twists his body, which makes his shadow twist and shake, too. It's weird and very funny. We laugh at the shadows.

 After a while, we stop, crawl into our sleeping bags and zip them up. I reach out and turn off the lantern. A faint glow comes in from under the flaps. Everything is normal, just as it's been since we arrived at Snug Harbor. I guess we fell asleep.

 Suddenly, I'm wide-awake. I hear Roger sleep-breathing. That can' be what wakened me. I listen hard. There it is again. The sound is like someone shaking and rustling paper bags. Then another sound, like tin cans rattling. I'm curious.

 'This needs to be looked into,' I think.

 I unzip my sleeping bag, reach over and tap Roger's sleeping bag.

 'Uh,' Roger says sleepily. 'Is it morning already?'

 'No, silly,' I whisper. 'Keep your voice down and listen.'

 We lie quietly in our sleeping bags. There it is again, soft rustling and scratching sounds and, now and then, rattling.

 'What do think it is?' Roger asks, now fully awake.

 'I don't know,' I reply. 'Shall we check it out?'

 'Let's do it,' he answers.

 Very quietly, we slip out of the sleeping bags and crawl to the tent opening. Roger opens the flaps a crack and peeks out. I get above him and look out over his head.

 There's just enough moonlight to make out the trees and the nearby tents. We can see Mother and Daddy's tent in front of ours. The sounds are coming from off to one side.

 I look down at Roger. His eyes are wide. So are mine, I guess. 'Are you game?' I ask him.

 'OK,' Roger says.

 I lift the lantern from its hook. I don't switch it on; there's enough moonlight so that we can see well enough.

 Opening the tent flap just enough, we slip out, stoop far over, and tiptoe in the direction of the sounds. We're very quiet and don't even whisper.

 Up ahead, among the trees, is where campers bring things they don't want, like empty tin cans and dinner leftovers that can' be saved until the next mealtime. The sounds are coming from that direction.

 Soon we're among the trees and near the large plastic containers where the trash is stored. We're close enough to a container to touch it, but of course, we don't.

 Roger and I hear loud rattling. We whirl in the direction from where it's coming and I switch on the lantern. Ahead of us are three trash containers, and they're overturned. Paper bags, tin cans, and bits of food cover the ground in all directions. Nosing about among the trash are dozens of small animals, picking at scraps. We make out squirrels, chipmunks, porcupines, woodchucks, and even a rooster and a chicken. They're bleating, yapping, squealing, chirping and clucking as they nibble and peck away at the leftover food.

 'It's like a zoo,' Roger laughs.

 'It's good that our table scraps aren't wasted,' I say.

 'Yes,' Roger adds, 'but it'll sure be a mess for someone to clean up in the morning.'

 The animals don't seem to mind our watching. They go right on scrounging and eating.

 'Let's go back to the tent,' Roger yawns.

 'I suppose we'd better,' I say, 'or we'll be too tired for tomorrow's adventure.'

 'Right,' Roger yawns again, 'That's one I don't want to miss.'

 Nor do I. I' m really looking forward to it.

 Back in our tent, I hang the lantern back on its hook and switch it off. We crawl back into our sleeping bags. Roger yawns again as he snuggles into the softness.

 I think of the little animals having a feast among the trees, and feel glad they can get at the food. I slip down so that my head isn't cold, pull up my knees and wrap my arms around myself. I feel cozy.

 'What happened the next day?' I asked.

 'Wait and see,' Roger grinned.

 THE LITTLE OLD MAN'S STRANGE STORY

 When Suzanne and Roger left after the last story they were mysterious about the next one, except that they did tell me to bring along a sandwich. The next morning, when we gathered at Three Palms, we each had a bag with sandwiches, cookies, and a container of milk.

 'I took you seriously yesterday,' I said, waving my bag.

 'Good that you did,' Suzanne answered as she settled down on to the sand. 'Are you ready?'

 'Yes,' I said, 'I'm ready. Which of you will tell this one?'

 'We're going to have to share this one.' Roger leaned back as he spoke. 'I'll start.'

 The next morning, bright and early, Suzanne and I have our breakfast and hurry to brush our teeth. We're dressed and anxious to be on our way. When Mother and Dad are ready we head for the trail. We're are on our way to visit the Little Old Man on the other side of the island.

 This Little Old Man is not just an ordinary old man. He's special. He lives in an old stone hut near the sea cliffs. The house is tiny; only the Little Old Man can get into it, and he does that only to sleep or for shelter on rainy days. The rest of the time he sits outside and children come from all over to sit near him and listen to his stories. That's why we're excited this morning. We want to hear one of the Little Old Man's world-famous stories.

 The trail across the island is wide and not too long. We get there in time to join a crowd of children and parents who are walking around or sitting on the ground in a half-circle, waiting.

 In the clearing, leaning on a cane, is the Little Old Man. He waves us in to join the others and points to an empty space nearby. We make our way to where he points and take our places. Mother and Dad sit behind us. I look at the Little Old Man and understand why he is called that.

 He is a small man, and, stooping over his cane, he looks small indeed. On his feet he wears leather sandals. His faded blue coveralls have patches on the knees and seat. A wide-brimmed straw hat is tipped back on his head.

 He removes his hat to wipe his head with a red handkerchief. His long white hair is tied in a ponytail, and his wrinkled face is tanned to nut brown. Eyes twinkling, he smiles at the audience. I feel good just watching him.

 The people who came to hear his story shift about to get comfortable and I do, too. The Little Old Man's voice is deep as he begins.

 #

 'When I was young,' he says, 'I was a sailor and traveled to lands in all the far corners of the world. I have been to strange places, and I have seen and talked to strange people. Listen to me about a strange place, and a stranger adventure.'

 He stops, stares out to sea, and rubs his chin, deep in thought. His eyes open wide as he looks back at us as his head turns from one side of the seated audience to the other.

 'After you've heard my story you'll decide for yourselves what to believe.'

 Putting his wide-brimmed hat back on his head, he lowers himself slowly to a large flat rock. He places his cane on the ground beside him and crosses his legs just as I often do when I watch television. Everyone's eyes are on him; it's very quiet.

 'Come with me to long ago and far away,' he begins in his husky-deep voice. 'We're on a gallant, full-rigged sailing ship crossing a wild and stormy sea. After many weeks, we drop anchor in the cove of a mist-shrouded shore where high waves break against gray and black rocks. The rocks are clustered, jagged and enormous, and they line the shoreline as far as I can see in either direction. Beyond the beach is a dark forest.

 'We leave the ship in the care of my First Mate and swim ashore. Climbing over the rocks, we dash across the beach into the forest. It is not only a dark forest; it is a dense and drippy-wet forest.

 'We cut our way through heavy underbrush for many hours and finally come to a high mountain. Fierce winds roar down the mountain slopes, and swirling mists twist and churn in streamers across the mountain's slopes.

 'We climb and we climb, until we reach a pass close to the peak. Now we must lower ourselves by ropes along a steep cliff. The base of the cliff is hidden by a blinding snowstorm. Reaching the bottom, we are in a deep gorge. The snow and the winds disappear, but there are other dangers ahead.

 'We string a rope bridge across a wide, swift river. On the other side rise dense and wet forests of twisted trees and dripping, slime-covered vines.

 'Tree branches and sharp thorns brush against us from both sides as we push our way through. They scratch our faces and arms. Above us the leaves are packed so close together that we cannot see the sky. The mud is soft and squishy under our feet.

 'We're tired, but we can' stop to rest. We must reach our destination as fast as we can. There is no time to lose. 'We must rescue our Princess from the Trolls!

 'Now you know who we are. You and I are rescuers. We have sailed across stormy seas, climbed steep mountains, crossed deep and swift rivers, and now we are making our way through this strange forest for one reason only: to free our Princess from Trolls.

 'Our mission is to return our Princess to our King and Queen who are our Princess's mother and father. They love her and miss her. The Trolls were wrong to take the Princess away from the castle that is her home, and they have no right to keep her.

 's o here we are, slithering and stumbling through squishy mud in the deep, thorny, drippy forest searching for the caves of the Trolls.

 'From far off in the distance we hear heavy rumbling. We're close.

 'Up ahead is an open space filled with huge boulders. We know that the Trolls for whom we're searching make their homes in caves hidden among such boulders.

 'We move slowly and silently. We must not be caught. Luckily for us, we arrive while it's still daylight. Had we arrived during darkness, the Trolls would have been up and about. You see, these Trolls are awake at night and sleep all day.

 'We tiptoe around a huge boulder. Facing us is the darkened opening of a cave. From inside we hear the sound of a Troll-snoring; that was the rumbling. Did you ever hear a troll snore?

 'The snoring of one troll-I mean just one troll-sounds like ten locomotives, all working together, pulling long trains up a steep hill. Ga- a-roar and chlupp, over and over, and then a real heavy phytt-phytt, followed by a high whistling cha-leep.

 'We're there, all right. We have reached the caves of the Trolls. Now we must find the Princess.

 'Crawling on our hands and knees, looking in all directions, we make our way to the cave from which the snoring comes. Peering in, we see the troll in the half-darkness of the far side, sound asleep. His lips flap as he snores.

 'The troll looks almost human, except for two horns that rise from his shaggy head, bristly-wire whiskers, bumpy nose, long pointed ears and no teeth. He looks interesting, but we didn't come all this way to stare at Trolls. We have a job to do.

 'We do not see the Princess. We move on. Quietly, not to waken the Trolls, we slip among the boulders, peering into one cave after another. The Trolls are all asleep--that's what we think.

 N O S U C H L U C K!

 'A pattering noise from behind us. It's different from a troll's snore. Slowly we turn. We see no one. There it is again. Step by step, we move toward the noise. It's coming from the other side of a pile of rocks and boulders.

 'Climbing close to the top of the rock pile, we peek through a space into a clearing. There, right there, in the center of the clearing, is the Princess. When we see her, and what she's doing, we know why the Trolls took her away from the castle.

 'The Princess is baking bread! That's right, BREAD! Surprised, aren't' you? Well, that's what she's doing, and there's no doubt about it. What does that have to do with her being taken by the Trolls? Listen, and I will tell you.

 'Our Princess is famous, far and wide, for the delicious bread she bakes. When she's at home and getting ready to bake, people come from throughout the land to sit nearby and enjoy the sight of her at work and the aroma of rising dough. They especially enjoy the smell that spreads throughout the palace and across the fields when her bread and rolls are in the oven. That's not all, there's another reason why people travel to the palace at the Princess's baking time.

 'Always, when the bread and rolls are baked, the Princess gives most of them away to the people. The people love the Princess because she loves them, and because she gives them bread and rolls.

 'The Trolls must have heard about how well the Princess bakes. They, too, love bread and rolls, but they do not know how to bake. What's more, they're too lazy to even try to learn. The only way they can get bread is to have someone else do the baking for them.

 'They also have no teeth and can only eat soft, fresh bread. That's why they took the Princess. They want her to bake soft bread and rolls for them each and every day. That's why they have her and want to keep her.

 'And that's why we're here. We've come to this strange and distant land to rescue our Princess from a tribe of bread-and-rolls-loving Trolls who are so lazy they would not even bake the bread they need to feed themselves.

 'The Princess doesn't' see us. She's working hard, mixing and kneading dough, shaping loaves and braiding rolls, placing loaves and rolls on huge trays, and then sliding the trays into an enormous baking oven. She stops every few minutes to shovel coal into the furnace under the oven to keep it hot, and doing all sorts of other baking jobs. She hasn't time to look around.

 'To add to our problem, a troll is watching the princess to make certain that she works every minute and does not try to escape.

 'We see the troll guard watching the Princess. He leans against a rock and his back is toward us. The hair on his shaggy head sticks straight up. A big club is beside him. He's our problem.

 'Carefully and silently, we climb over one boulder after another until we're above and behind the guard. All-round are sounds of Trolls snoring, and the ga-a-roaring, phytting, chlupping and cha-leeping are so loud that the noise we make climbing down to the ground is not noticed, we hope.

 'We're on the ground, sneaking up behind the troll. The Princess sees us. She looks surprised, but knowing who we are and why we're there, she acts as if she doesn't' know and keeps working. The troll didn't notice the sudden look of surprise on her face.

 'We're only a short distance from the troll. I step on a twig. The twig breaks with a loud 's nap'. The troll whirls around, sees us, and snatches up his club. He screeches, spreading the alarm.

 'He sounds like a donkey braying. 'Help! Help!' he screams, and it comes out sounding to us like 'He haw! He haw!' It really doesn't' make any difference how it sounds, we're in trouble.

 'There's not a second to lose. We attack; you from one side, I from the other. The troll doesn't' know which of us will strike at him first. He turns first one way, then the other. He is confused.

 'You dodge in. The troll faces you and lifts his club. I rush up behind him, and as the club swings back over his shoulder I grab it and pull it from his hands.

 'Not having anything to hit us with, the troll backs away. We don't want to hurt him, so we let him go.

 'You dash to the Princess. She hugs you, then points to a space between two boulders. 'I know a way,' she whispers. 'Follow me.'

 'We squeeze between the boulders and see a narrow, twisty trail. 'This is the way,' cries the Princess. 'We must follow the narrow, twisty trail. It will take us past the boulders to the edge of the enchanted, tangled forest. The Trolls are afraid of the enchanted, tangled forest, and we'll be safe from them there.'

 'We race along the narrow, twisty trail, around a boulder one-way, then around another boulder the other way. We wiggle, wriggle, wind, and even zigzag. The trail is as twisty as a corkscrew. The Trolls know where we're heading, and they try to head us off.

 'We're almost out of breath. 'Only a little way to go now,' the Princess gasps. Two more zigs, three zags, a twist and a wriggle and we're at the edge of the enchanted, tangled forest. We look back. The Trolls have stopped. They know they must not approach closer to the enchanted forest.

 'The Princess waves good-bye. 'It was wrong for you to take me away from my mother and father,' she calls across to them. 'I want to go back to them and to all my friends and neighbors. Now you must learn to bake bread and rolls for yourselves.'

 'The Trolls look very sad as they wave back. We turn and walk into the enchanted, tangled forest.'

 The Little Old Man picks up his cane, slowly stands, and smiles at us.

 'Our perilous crossing of the enchanted, tangled forest is the next part of the story,' he says. 'Everyone rise and stretch. Stamp your feet and swing your arms.' He points to a drinking fountain. 'Have a drink of water if you wish. Then, let's gather again in a little while and I'll tell what happened to us along the narrow, twisty trail that cut through the enchanted, tangled forest.'

 THE SAME TALE: AND THEN...

 The first part ended with the Little Old Man telling us all to stand and stretch. That's what we, at Three Palms, did too. As we ate half our sandwich, Suzanne went on with the story.

 The Little Old Man continues.

 'Here we are now,' he says as his eyes move from one side of the half- circle to the other. 'The Princess, you and I have just stepped across the magic line into the enchanted, tangled forest. We have escaped from the Trolls. We must find our way back to the cove where our ship is anchored. From there we will sail across the stormy seas, heading for home. Our Princess will be back with her mother and father who love her and miss her very much.

 'But first, we must make our way to the other side of this enchanted, tangled forest.

 ''The Trolls tell strange tales about this forest,' the Princess whispers.

 'The Princess looks about and back at the thorny, dripping vines.

 'The Trolls say there are THINGS in this forest. I hope we can get through to the other side without seeing them.'

 'We cannot delay; we must move on. Up ahead the trail twists among the trees and disappears under thick vines. We start along the trail. I lead the way, then the Princess, and you in the rear to guard us from behind. We force our way through the heavy vines and underbrush.

 'After walking for a long time we stop and listen. There are no noises in the forest. No sounds of birds singing, or insects buzzing, or leaves rustling, or breezes blowing; nothing but silence. It is the enchantment. We try to walk fast, but we must be careful.

 'The narrow, twisty trail leads us up one slope and down another. The leaves on the trees are so wide and densely packed that we are in deep shadow. The sharp thorns on the slimy vines that hang from tree branches claw at us, but we push them aside.

 'Up ahead is an enormous tree with heavy branches stretched across the trail. It blocks our way. The trunk of the tree, off to the side, is very thick, and its branches and roots spread in all directions.

 'We must get through the tangle of the tree's branches or roots, and find our way again on the other side. We search for a trail around the tree. The closely packed branches, roots, and steep rocks on both sides of the trail are too dense to push through.

 'Standing next to a branch across the trail I reach out to climb across the tangle. The Princess and you are close behind.

 'As I touch the branch, it draws back and away from my hand.

 'What is this? A tree branch that pulls back and away when it is touched? Impossible! I reach for it again. It pulls away. The Princess, you and I stare at it, astonished.

 'An enchanted tree,' the Princess says. 'We must talk to it, and trust it to understand.'

 'OK.' I shrug and step back.

 'The Princess turns to the tree.' Tree,' she says softly, 'I am the Princess.'

 'A rustling sound comes from the tree, and the sounds form into words.

 'I am Omar the Oak,' the rustling words come slowly.' What are you doing in the enchanted, tangled forest? It is forbidden to ordinary humans.'

 'We are strangers in this enchanted, tangled forest,' says the Princess. 'My friends, here beside me, have just rescued me from the Trolls who live in the caves, and now we are trying to get through to our ship in the cove. My mother and father are waiting for me at home. They love me and I love them, and we miss each other very much. Please let us pass?'

 'The fallen tree is very still; not a branch stirs, not a twig twitches, not a leaf flutters. Is the tree thinking?

 'After a long while, slowly, very slowly, a leaf moves, a twig bends, and a branch curves toward us. The branch stops near the Princess's hand. She reaches out and gently touches it.

 'More leaves move and soon thousands are fluttering. The branches untangle and a way opens for us. Branches curve around to form a ladder and we climb up and over the branches that are too thick to bend. The branches on the other side bend and open to let us to pass. We reach the ground near the trail.

 'We turn back to Omar the Oak. The tree's leaves flutter, its twigs twitch, and its branches wave slowly. We wave.

 'Thank you, Omar,' says the Princess. 'Thank you for helping us across. We will never forget your kindness.'

 'The rustling of the leaves becomes louder, and form words. 'Good-bye, good-bye,' says Omar the Oak. 'I wish you well. Be warned. You must prove that you deserve to leave this enchanted, tangled forest. Be warned! You must deserve!'

 'How must I show that I deserve to leave this enchanted forest?' The Princess asks Omar the Oak. 'To whom must I prove it? What must I do to 'deserve'?'

 'The rustling gets louder, and we hear again, 'You must deserve to make your way out of this enchanted, tangled forest. Be ready.' The rustling is very loud. 'Be ready,' the words repeat and fade away.

 ''What do you mean, Omar?' the Princess repeats her question, 'what has 'deserve' to do with our leaving the forest?'

 'But the tree is silent. The leaves stop rustling, the twigs stop twitching, and the branches no longer wave. Omar, the enchanted oak, will say no more.

 'We turn away from the friendly, but mysterious tree and move on along the narrow, twisty trail.

 'The trail gets narrower still, and the leaves in the trees pack so close we hardly see our way. We trip over roots curling out from the squishy ground, and our clothes are snagged by the sharp thorns of slimy vines hanging from trees. The deep silence of the enchanted, tangled forest is all about us.

 'Ahead, the trail takes a steep drop into a hollow with huge gray rocks on each side. The rocks are shiny with wet, green moss. We slip and slide about as we try to make our way down and across to where the trail curves up again to drier ground.

 'But wait. We cannot make our way through this rocky hollow. The trail is blocked. Yes, blocked, and I mean really blocked. There, in front of us, completely across the narrow, twisty trail with its huge wet, slimy rocks on each side, stretches a huge, glittering, lacy-braided, closely woven spider's web.

 'That isn't all. In the center of the huge web, waiting for us, is the Spider. Oh, the size of that spider! Enormous! Its legs are long and bent, and covered with jagged spikes at the ends of which are curved, red pincers. The spider's eyes, big as dinner plates, glare at us.

 ''We must fight that spider,' I say, 'or we won' get through.'

 ''No,' the Princess says. 'This is an enchanted forest, and the creatures that live in it are also enchanted. Let me try.'

 'The Princess walks close to the web. She's so close that the spider can reach out and grab her with its curved, sharply pointed pincers. If the spider grabs her, it will not be a pleasant hug at all for our Princess.

 'The spider doesn't' move. The huge eyes glare at her.

 'I am the Princess....' she starts to say.

 'I am Cyril the Spider,' the spider interrupts and its voice is like a saw cutting through wood.' What are you doing in the enchanted, tangled forest. Ordinary humans are not allowed here.'

 'The Princess speaks; her tone is polite.

 'Pointing to you and me, she says, 'these are my friends who came from far away to rescue me from the Trolls who live in the boulder caves. We must make our way through this enchanted, tangled forest to our ship in the cove. From there we will sail across the stormy seas to my home where my mother and father are waiting for me. They love me and I love them, and we miss each other. I want very much to go home. Please let us pass?'

 'Cyril the Spider stares at the Princess, then at you and me. Cyril is thinking.

 'Very well,' Cyril says, his buzz softening.' I will let you pass.'

 'The huge spider stretches one of its long legs to the bottom of the web and draws it up. The web's strands pull apart until there is just enough room for us to pass in single file. The Princess goes first, you and I follow. As I pass through the web, it closes behind me.

 'The Princess turns back to the spider.

 'Thank you, Cyril,' she says. 'You're very kind to let us through your web. I will never forget your kindness.'

 'Good-bye, good-bye.' Cyril's buzz has softened to a hum. 'I wish you well.'

 'Cyril's voice changes to a rasp. 'Be warned,' the Spider says. 'Soon you must prove that you deserve to leave this enchanted, tangled forest. You must deserve!'

 'There it is again,' the Princess says, her voice now exasperated. 'I'm warned again about deserving to leave this enchanted, tangled forest, and that I must be ready. What does that mean, Cyril?'

 'But Cyril doesn't' answer. He is watching the trail again. We're now behind his web and Cyril will say no more.

 'We turn away from Cyril and move on along the twisty trail. It leaves the narrow space between the high rocks. Once again we are in the deep shade of closely packed leaves, fighting our way through drippy, thorny vines and thick underbrush.

 'We walk for hours. Ahead, we see a steep hill. The trail zing zags up the hill, and disappears into a dark tunnel.

 'We stop. We must follow the trail through the dark tunnel if we want to reach the cove where our gallant ship waits.'

 The Little Old Man stops. He looks round at the waiting faces. 'Would you like to hear what happens when the Princess and her friends enter the tunnel?'

 'Yes, yes,' we all shout.

 'Very well. It's time for another stretch so let's all rise and move about a bit. When you're ready, take your place and I'll finish the story.'

 STILL THE SAME STORY: WHAT A FINISH!

 Suzanne and Roger raced toward where I waited under the date palm.

 'How far did you run?' I asked.

 'Dunes,' gasped Roger, leaning against the trunk of the banana palm.

 '...and back,' added Suzanne, running in place as she spoke.

 'Ready for the last part of the story?' Roger's gasping slowed to regular breathing.

 'Whenever you are,' I answered.

 Suzanne stopped running in place and flopped down onto the sand next to her brother.

 'Your turn,' Suzanne pointed at Roger as she leaned against the tree. 'I'll rest and listen.'

 'OK, everyone,' the Little Old Man calls out. 'Jump up and down a few more times and then gather round and take your places. The sun is starting its downward journey into evening. We'll finish in time so you can hike back to your campsites and have your dinners.

 He sits slowly, and places his cane beside him. He looks around.

 We're all in our places and quiet, waiting for him to go on with the story.

 'We left the Princess, you and me in the enchanted, tangled forest. We've passed through the web of Cyril the Spider and are now back on the narrow, twisty trail. Up ahead is the steep hill. Near the top of the hill the narrow, twisty trail disappears into a tunnel.

 'We climb the slope to the tunnel's entrance. We look in, but can' see beyond a few feet. It's really dark in there.

 ''We have no choice,' the Princess says.' We must pass through the tunnel to the other side so that we can get to our ship.'

 'We search the ground under the trees for fallen branches. There are many to choose from. We make clubs and torches. I light the tips of the torches with my trusty fire-matches.

 'Into the tunnel we go. It's wet and cold and damp. Under our feet the mud is squishy. As we round a bend the light from the tunnel's opening behind us disappears. It's dark ahead of us and dark behind us. We step carefully, our torches lighting the way.

 'We walk for more than an hour. The end of the tunnel is still not in sight. Our torches are getting short. We didn't expect the tunnel would be this long, and we're wondering if we'll ever make it to the other end.

 'Up ahead is a dim glow. We walk faster. Maybe it's the end of the tunnel.

 'The light gets brighter. It's coming from around the next bend. We're especially careful now, and as we come to the bend we lean over to peer around and beyond.

 'A piercing shriek cuts the air behind us.

 ''We gotcha!' a voice roars.

 'We whirl around, staring into the darkness, ready to fight. We see nothing at first. After a moment, we make out tiny gleams, in pairs and close together. Eyes-many eyes-staring at us.

 ''Oh no, you haven' got us,' I shout. The Princess, you and I stand close. 'Come on,' I whisper, 'let's make a run for it.'

 'We turn and dash around the bend. We stop in surprise.

 'The tunnel ahead of us opens into an enormous cavern. Lighted torches along the walls cast shadows in all directions. The center of the cavern is taken up by a huge black box, and next to it, staring at us. Are you ready for this. They are the Elfenfolk! Elfenfolk, I say! Yes, Elfenfolk!

 ''Oh, no,' cries the Princess, 'we escaped from Trolls, and now we're among Elfenfolk! Not again!'

 'We whirl back to the narrow tunnel. We must escape. From the tunnel rush more Elfenfolk. They're the ones who sneaked up on us and shrieked 'We gotcha.' My goodness, they sure gotcha'd us. We're surrounded!

 'Standing back to back, we raise our clubs, ready to protect ourselves against attack. I must say, though, Elfenfolk are not at all like Trolls. These don't look fierce, as Trolls do, nor do they look like they would really want to fight with us, or with anyone.

 'Out of the crowd near the black box steps an old, old Elf. Stooped over, he leans on a cane. Slowly, he comes closer, peering at the Princess through tiny eyeglasses perched on the tip of his nose. He points his cane at her.

 'Who are you?' he wheezes.

 'I am the Princess,' replies the Princess and points to you and me. 'These are my friends,' she says, 'who have come to take me back to the King and the Queen who are my father and mother who love me very much and whom I love very much. We miss each other and I want to return home so I can be with them. The narrow, twisty trail to the cove where our gallant ship is waiting led us into this tunnel. We have no choice but to follow it. Please let us pass.'

 'The ancient Elf has not taken his eyes from the Princess.

 'Do you bake?' he wheezes.

 'Do I bake?' cries the Princess. 'What do you mean by that? Are you going to bake me?'

 'The Princess, you and I raise our clubs. No one is going to bake our Princess. No siree, not if we can stop it.

 'There is a long silence. The ancient, stooped Elf stares at each of us. We stare back at him. The crowd of Elves closes around us.

 'The old, old Elf smiles.

 'I don't mean, do YOU bake, but only do you bake? No, that doesn't' sound right, does it? Can you bake? Can you bake bread and rolls? There, that's better.' 'Huh,' I say.

 'Huh,' you say.

 'The Princess looks puzzled. 'What do you mean? Can I bake bread and rolls? Why do you ask?'

 'Everything changes. Instead of being ready to fight for our lives, we're talking about baking bread and rolls. I mean: baking stuff! Now really! How about that, all you boys and girls sitting here round and about? How about that, all you Moms and Dads and Grandparents sitting alongside your children and grandchildren?

 'Well, we are really astonished, and although we're relieved, we're still very suspicious. We keep our clubs ready.

 'The Princess looks at me. I look at her. She looks at you. You look at her. You and I look at each other.

 'The Princess's face breaks into a gentle smile as she says to us, 'I think these Elfenfolk will not hurt us. I'll speak with this little old man and try get his help.'

 'We lower our clubs, but hold on to them, just in case we do need to defend ourselves

 ''Yes, I can bake bread and rolls,' the Princess says, turning back to the little old man.

 'Whispering sounds chase each other among the Elfenfolk crowding close.

 'She says she can bake bread.'

 'Do you think she really can?'

 'Well, she says she can.'

 'É and rolls?'

 'Yes, and rolls.'

 'She can, really?'

 'From someone in back, 'I'm willing to believe her. I'll say, yes, she can.'

 'The Elfenfolk chant, 'She can. She can. Oh, yes, oh, yes, she can. The Princess can bake bread and rolls. Oh, joy, oh joy! The lovely Princess can bake bread and rolls. Beautiful bread and rolls. We are saved.'

 'They dance. Round and round they go. Holding up colored cloths they form first a line, and then a circle, then many smaller circles, and circles inside of circles. They dance and they dance and they laugh and they sing.

 'The ancient Elf leans heavily on his cane. He looks very worn and tired.

 'Please,' he says. 'Our baker is very, very old, just as I am, and now he is also very sick. He is too weak to bake any longer or to tell us how to do the baking ourselves. So we have neither bread nor rolls. Please bake some bread and rolls. Then, lovely Princess, teach us how to bake. In that way you will save us from hunger.'

 'The ancient Elf points to the big black oven.

 'We have a good oven, but we don't know how to prepare it for baking. Show us how to heat the oven for baking. When we are no longer hungry, we will help you. We will have the strength to guide you to the cove, and to help you to get to your gallant ship. Then you will depart across the stormy seas to the King and Queen, who are your father and mother who love you and miss you very much.'

 The Little Old Man stops talking. He pulls his big red checkered handkerchief out of his pocket and wipes away a tear.

 'Well, boys and girls and mothers and fathers,' he says, 'you can imagine what happens after that. The Princess shows the Elfenfolk how to prepare the oven, and she has them bring flour and water and yeast and salt. She shows them how to mix and knead the dough.

 'After the dough has risen, the Princess shows the Elves how to roll it out and shape it into loaves and rolls. Everyone is busy. The Elves place the loaves and rolls on baking trays and pans. They lift the trays and pans over their heads and form a line from where they made the dough to the oven's door.

 'The Princess stands beside the oven as the Elves follow her instructions and slide the trays and pans inside. The oven is enormous, and there is room for all the trays and pans.

 'We sit in a half-circle in front of the oven, waiting. Soon, the cavern fills with the aroma of baking bread. Everyone, the Princess, all the Elfenfolk, and you and I, breathe in the warm soft fragrance that always comes from well-prepared bread and rolls baking in an oven.

 'When the Princess thinks enough time has passed, she says, 'It is time to take the trays and pans from the oven.'

 'The Princess opens the oven door. A gasp and a shout rise from the Elfenfolk standing on their toes and stretching to see. Before them are dozens of loaves of bread and hundreds of rolls, all baked to a glorious golden brown. It is a beautiful sight.

 'Using long-handled scoops, the Elves draw the bread and rolls from the oven and set them aside to cool. While the bread and rolls are cooling, the Princess tells the Elfenfolk again how the dough should be prepared, and how the oven made ready for baking.

 'When the Princess is satisfied that her instructions are understood, she says, 'Now, as all good people do, let us eat bread together.'

 'We all stand silently, looking at the bread. The ancient Elf rises from where he sits and, leaning on his cane, walks slowly to where the bread is cooling. He places his hand on a loaf and looks at it for a long time, speaking very softly.

 'He pinches off a piece of bread from the loaf and from that piece pinches off another. Leaning on his cane, he walks slowly to where the Princess stands, watching him, and gives to her the pinch of bread.

 'We were in need,' he says, 'and you helped us. By helping those in need you have shown us that you, too, deserve to be helped.'

 'You and I nod in understanding. The meaning behind the words of Omar the Oak and Cyril the Spider are now clear.

 'The ancient Elf points to a tunnel opening in the cavern's wall.' From here the tunnel has many branches, and many have turns that lead deeper and deeper into the enchanted, tangled forest. By yourselves, you would have lost your way. We will guide you through the tunnel to the cove where your ship waits.'

 'The Princess and the ancient Elf silently eat the bread they hold in their hands.

 'The other Elfenfolk crowd around and thank us for showing them how to bake bread and rolls. They wish us well on our journey home.

 'We wave good-bye, and with ten stalwart Elves carrying lighted torches to lead the way, we walk along the tunnel. After many turns into branch tunnels and an hour of climbing ladders and stairways we are out again into daylight. We see the cove. An offshore breeze is blowing.

 'The Elfenfolk drag a boat from among nearby reeds. We take seats in the boat and our escorts row us out to our ship. We climb aboard, and wave farewell.

 'I turn away and shout an order to my First Mate, 'Hoist the anchor! Unfurl the sails!'

 'The sails rise, catch the offshore breeze and fill out. Our gallant ship turns gently and moves gracefully out of the cove. We are on our way home.'

 #

 The Little Old Man slowly stands. He is stooped, and leans on his cane with both hands. He looks tired and a little sad.

 'That is the end of the story,' he says. 'I recall that the voyage across the sea was stormy, but we did reach the other shore safely. The Princess was happy to be back with her mother and father, whom she loved and who loved her and they had indeed missed each other very much.

 'For many years afterward the Princess enjoyed baking bread and rolls for her father and mother and for friends who came to visit. In time, she married, and baked for her family. Every day, before dinner, she and her children carried baskets of bread and rolls and other foods from the castle and gave them to her people. The people all loved the Princess as much as she loved them.'

 The Little Old Man slowly straightens and waves his cane at us. We all stand.

 'Good-bye, good-bye,' he says. 'The sun is low in the sky. It is time for you to return to your campsites. I will see you all again another time, and we'll all go on another voyage across stormy seas to strange lands and strange people, and even stranger Things. Good-bye, good-bye. I wish you well.'

 The Little Old Man turns and, leaning heavily on his cane, goes into his tiny hut and closes the door. The story of the Princess's escape from a land of enchantment has ended.

 We hike back to our campsite. It is late evening when we arrive. We have a quick supper and slip into our sleeping bags.

 'This was really a good vacation,' I say to Suzanne.' Tomorrow morning we'll sail back to our home at Three Palms. I'm glad we're going home, because next week we start school.

 Suzanne is sound asleep.

 And so these stories of Suzanne and Roger at Three Palms are finished. We stand and stretch. A gull swoops in from the sea, lands, and pecks about among strands of seaweed that had washed on to the shore. It is late afternoon.

 Leaving the beach we head for our homes. At the top of a low rise we stop to look back. There, against the background of blue ocean and darkening sky the fronds of our three palms wave gently in a soft and gentle breeze.

 PART THREE: REACH FOR THE STARS, GRANDPA!

 Grandparents, and older adults generally, are excellent sources for stories and activities that fascinate children. Plotting, writing, and then rehashing such stories can be as much fun for grandma and grandpa, as for the grandkids who hear or read them. In years to come, the young grandchildren of today will read to their own grandchildren the stories that their grandparents wrote for them. The process enhances a family's sense of continuity and cohesion, especially in circumstances where the family is dispersed.

 Looking back at how a story came to be may refresh memories of childhood to the generation-in-the-middle as the elders, and, in time, to the young as they mature into the next 'middle' generation. Here is a model with which to experiment.

 One fine day:

 (Grandma calls out from the kitchen) 'Mike, answer the phone. I'm busy.'

 (Grandpa grumbles) 'It's probably for you.'

 'Well, then, take the message.'

 (Mumble, mumble) 'Hello.'

 Hi, Grandpa!'

 'Yo, ho, ho! Looka what I got, and it isn't even my birthday! My too-faraway grandchild! HEY! How goes ...?'

 'Write me a story, Grandpa.'

 'Huh? What's this story bit all of a sudden?'

 'A space story, Grandpa, I want a space story.'

 'Space? What do I know about space? Where in space?'

 'Far out.'

 'How far? Space is humungous.'

 'Tell me about it. I watch TV cartoons too.'

 'Well then, as one expert to another, this calls for a telephone conference.'

 The next ten minutes consisted of an in-depth give-and-take during which grandchild enlightened me about our Sun and its family of planets. Together, we counted and reeled off the names of each planet from Mercury on out, not to ignore the recently discovered 'Planet X'. We guessed at the number of moons that orbited each, and which of the outer planets had rings 'that look like flattened hula hoops.' It wasn't long before I was frantically leafing through our ancient family encyclopedia that I hauled down from our kids bedrooms where it had been since their high school days.

 Now, once more the books had returned to and were spread out on the dining room table, this time for the edification of 'grandchild.' After all, to this six- year old, I was 'grandpa,' and grandpa, to a six-year old, knows. Doesn't he? Finally, I succumbed to Grandchild's insistence. 'OK. I'll write a story, but first I've got questions. Holler Mom to the extension phone. Tell her to bring notepaper and a pencil.'

 #

 'Hi, Dad, what's happenin'.'

 'Don't say 'what's happenin' to me, ask my grandchild; she gave me the job. But ol' gramps wasn't born yesterday. Let's make this a family project, so are you ready, I hope. OK? Write this down and call me back with the answers. I need a boy character and a girl character. Give them names. Next, where do they live? Just 'in space' isn't enough. Where in space? On the moon? On Mars along with that double-jointed six plus wheeler we sent up there some years ago to scrounge around in potholes and climb over rocks? So, where does this story take place?

 'Maybe the characters live on one of the Asteroids? How about one of Jupiter's dozen or so moons? How about putting them on a pebble or a grain of sand that whirls along somewhere in an outer ring of Saturn? Whichever, you folks have yourselves a family story conference and make up your own answers. OK?'

 An anguished moan 'Oh, no!' from the other end of the line.

 Grandchild soon phoned back.

 #

 'The girl's name is Stobey the Space Worm, and the boy is Slutter the Slime.'

 'Oh, my! Stobey the Space Worm and Slutter the Slime. That's a fine pair of names you're giving me to work with. What else did you come up with?'

 'Mom says for you to use your own imagination and not to bother her.'

 'Hmmm, I'm being abandoned in deep space. OK, how about my working up Stobey and Slutter in a story about a space bagel?'

 'C'mon, you're kiddin'; but it's your problem, Gramps! Carry on!'

 And that led to the story about':

 A BAGEL? IN SPACE?

 Stobey the Space Worm is a girl, and her friend Slutter the Slime, is a boy. They live on farms next to each other. The farms are on Planet Mars.

 One morning, after breakfast, Stobey runs to Slutter's house and they race each other to their spaceships. Stobey's spaceship is squishy and is named Cream Cheese; Slutter's spaceship is as slimy as he and his name is Lox.

 Spaceship Lox is named after a kind of smoked fish that was taken along by the first expedition of colonists to Planet Mars from Planet Earth. It's a real slippery fish, even after it's smoked.

 Stobey climbs aboard Cream Cheese and Slutter slides into Lox. They take off and head for a landing strip on the slope of a mountain on Phobos, one of Planet Mars' moons.

 They land their spaceships on Phobos and explore the mountaintop.

 They come to a wide, deep hole near the center of the peak. Next to the wide, deep hole they see a sign. On the sign is printed 'The name of this mountain is Bagel.

 'Just imagine,' Stobey laughs. 'We flew to the moon on Cream Cheese and Lox, and where did we land? We landed on a bagel!'

 It begins to rain. The rainwater on Phobos is white. The reason the milk is white is that on the moons of Mars it always rains milk - real milk. There is a story on Mars that the milk-rain on Phobos really comes from the Cow That Jumped Over the Moon.

 Stobey and Slutter take drinking cups from their lunch boxes and hold them up. The cups fill with milk.

 'Hm,' says Slutter. 'Here we are, with Cream Cheese and Lox on Bagel, having cups of milk.'

 Stobey and Slutter look at each other and giggle. The giggles turn to laughs. My, how they laugh. They explore Bagel Mountain for a while, then walk back to their spaceships. They say good-bye to each other, climb aboard, and switch on the ship's motors. The motors roar and the ships are ready to take off.

 Slimy Lox gets off fine but goopy soft Cream Cheese sticks to the Bagel and is in trouble. Stobey presses real hard on the engine pedal. After a real hard try Cream Cheese smears along the ground, finally gets unstuck and squirts into space.

 'Why was it so hard for Cream Cheese to get off the Bagel?' Stobey wonders.

 Stobey hasn't learned yet that bagels all across our solar system have always had a mysterious and powerful attraction for cream cheese. For instance, on Planet Earth the single most important question throughout history has been, 'Of what possible use can a bagel be, without cream cheese?'

 The two spaceships head for home.

 (Hi, Grandpas and Grandmas: The same story can be written using hamburger and catsup on a bun with soda pop or milk or any popular, traditional or commercial combination. Try it with your grandchildren's favorite snacks.)

 The bagel story opened a series of space stories, the first of which was:

 SUPER-ROCK PLAYGROUND

 Stobey's and Slutter's families have moved to the Outer Region of the Solar System and built homes on Jupiter's moon Callisto. Earthlings were overrunning Mars.

 One morning Stobey calls Slutter on her space visi-phone.

 'Slutter,' says Stobey, 'let's get together.'

 'Right,' Slutter answers. 'Where's a good place to meet?'

 'If we leave now in our new spaceships, Coconut and Banana,' says

 Stobey, 'we'll reach the space lanes' junction near the gate to Super-Rock Playground on Moon Ganymede. Will you meet me there?'

 'Yes,' Slutter says. 'I'll leave now in Banana and meet you where the space lanes join. I'll be there in an hour, Stobey. See you.'

 They switch off, dash for their spaceships and launch. Coconut and Banana are fast, but the distance each must fly is so great that it will take at least an hour to reach the junction.

 Super-Rock is the children's playground in the outer region of our solar system, which includes all the planets and space colonies beyond the Asteroids. The playground has roller coasters, a merry-go-round, tunnels to explore, music bands, and many rides for children. It's really cool. Since it's such a special and favorite park, Super-Rock gets lots of visitors.

 As Stobey and Slutter approach Super-Rock Playground, the space lanes leading into it become crowded with other spaceships and buggies.

 There are big bus line spaceships, each loaded with hundreds of passengers, private spaceships with families, and lots of single-seat space buggies like Coconut and Banana. There are also hot rod space buggies that switch at high speed from one lane to another, driven by boys and girls who sport fancy haircuts, twisty earrings, and leather jackets.

 Stobey and Slutter handle their single-seaters carefully to keep from having an accident. The junction to which they are headed is complicated. Hundreds of spacers are in coming in from the right and underneath to join up with hundreds of others from the left and overhead. Everyone is careful. That is, almost everyone. Stobey switches on her space radio.

 'Stobey calling Slutter,' she says into her microphone. 'Come in, Slutter.'

 Slutter is waiting for the call.

 'Slutter here,' he replies. 'Where are you, Stobey?'

 I'm in the holding pattern at the junction,' Stobey says, 'and I'm flashing my green and yellow lights. Can you spot me?'

 'Not yet. I've got my greens and yellows on, too,' Slutter answers. 'Let's watch for each other.'

 A moment later, Stobey says, 'I see you in my finder; you're still some distance behind me. I'll cut out and line up ahead of you. When you catch up we'll head for the parking block. Let's park next to each other.

 OK?'

 'That's fine. Let's do that.'

 Without warning, Stobey feels a slam on the rear of her space-buggy. She looks in her rear-view mirror. It's a hot rodder and he's bumping the nose of his buggy against the back of hers.

 'Slutter,' Stobey shouts. 'I'm having a problem with a hot rodder. He's bumping my tail. If he doesn't stop he'll damage my buggy.'

 'I'm speeding up and closing,' Slutter replies. 'I'll check him out.'

 Slutter rams power into Banana's motor and, a moment later, sees

 Coconut up ahead. The hot rodder's ship is pushing and bumping Coconut.

 Slutter maneuvers Banana behind the hot rodder. Lowering Banana's nose, he slips it under the rear bumper of the hot rodder. He quickly raises Banana's nose and flips the hot rodder away.

 Slutter moves Banana up alongside Coconut. The hot rodder, seeing the Coconut has a Banana for a buddy, veers off. Together, they're too much for him.

 'Thank you, Slutter,' says Stobey. 'If you hadn't stopped that hot rodder he might have cracked my Coconut. You sure saved me.'

 'I'm glad I was here to help,' Slutter replies. 'If it was the other way round I'm sure you would have done the same for me. Come to think of it, Stobey, if that hot rodder had bumped against my buggy, and you weren't here to help me, he might've peeled my Banana.'

 Stobey and Slutter think that's funny. They laugh and they laugh as, flying along side by side, they move along the space lanes into the Super-Rock parking block.

 They find parking spaces next to each other. When they step out from their space buggies they come together with smiles and a hug. Hand in hand, they head for the gate that leads into Super-Rock, the most spectacular children's park and playground in the entire outer region of the solar system. First they tried:

 SWINGING FROM A STAR

 As Stobey and Slutter enter Super-Rock Playground they are greeted by a Hooten-Nanny. The Hooten-Nannies are a family of jugglers, trapeze artists and clowns who enjoy making people laugh. One job that they really enjoy is to meet visitors at the Super-Rock gate and show them the sights and rides. Stobey and Slutter are lucky; a Hooten-Nanny wants to show them around the park.

 Hi,' says the Hooten-Nanny as he twirls about, flips a double somersault, a triple spin and a rollover. 'I'm Chug-a-lug the Hooten-Nanny from over Europa way. Just call me Chug. I'm one of the fellows who work here, and I like to show visitors around our park. May I join you?'

 Stobey and Slutter look at Chug. They never met a real Hooten-Nanny, but are not surprised at the way he looks. They've seen pictures of Hooten-Nannies in storybooks, television, and on several Websites of the Solar Wide Web.

 Chug looks like a single length of very thin spaghetti, but stiff, like before it's boiled. Chug's head is long and thin too, and his arms and legs also look like strands of spaghetti. The clown's suit he wears glows with all of the universe's colors; it's made entirely of rainbow mist.

 'We certainly would like you to join us,' Stobey and Slutter say together.

 'What are you going to show us?' Stobey asks.

 'And what are we going to do?' Slutter adds.

 Chug bends forward so that his head is close to Stobey's.

 'You'll see what I'll show you when you see it,' he whispers with a big grin and a wink. Turning to Slutter he says with the same grin and wink, 'You will know what we'll do when it happens.' Then, to both, 'Ar-r-re you ready?'

 'Yes, we ar-r-re ready,' shout Stobey and Slutter together, jumping up and down with excitement.

 'Then we're off.' Chug yells a shrill 'whoop' as he reaches down with his long arms and wraps one around Stobey and the other around Slutter. Lifting and hugging them close to his thin chest he springs upward with a mighty leap. Holding on to each other, they soar over the gate and above the road leading into the park. Looking down, Stobey and Slutter see the faces of many people staring up at them.

 They hear shouts, 'What are they? Are they birds? Are they spaceships?'

 A voice shouts, 'I know. I know. It's Chug-a-lug, the Hooten-Nanny, and he's flying his friends to see the sights and to take the special rides. Aren't they the lucky ones?'

 They approach a mountain peak. With a flip and a flop they land on a tiny platform at the tip of a tall pole. They see the ground far below. Beside them, tied to a railing on the platform is a trapeze bar.

 'For goodness sake,' exclaims Stobey, 'What's a trapeze bar doing here at the very top of a mountain?'

 'This is my own special trapeze,' Chug replies. 'I use it to travel from one place to another. Very often, when I'm feeling real good, I do somersaults as I go along. Shall we swing?'

 'Now just a moment,' Slutter says, looking around and then far up into space above Ganymede. 'A trapeze bar swings through space, that I understand. But the lines that hold the bar need to be fastened to something at its other end. I don't see where the trapeze lines end. What are they fastened to up there in space, Chug?'

 Chug grins and points up. Stobey and Slutter look again. The trapeze lines stretch up and up and disappear from sight. Far, far away, beyond where the lines seem to join and disappear they see a flickering light.

 'My special trapeze,' Chug says softly, 'is hitched to a star.' Raising his voice, he shouts, 'Are you ready?'

 'We ar-r-e ready!'

 Chug unties the trapeze from the platform. He grasps the trapeze bar in the middle; Stobey takes a firm grip of the bar on his right and Slutter does the same on his left.

 'Don't let go,' Chug shouts and with a powerful shove they swing out and away from the mountaintop. The trapeze gathers speed. Down below, the ground rushes past, much too fast to see the people that they know are watching them.

 'Now! See me hang by my feet,' Chug calls out.

 He flips through a somersault and catches the trapeze bar with his long spaghetti-thin toes. Stobey decides to try. She takes a deep breath, twists, and in an instant she is somersaulting. Completing the twist, her feet reach for the trapeze bar.

 The bar isn't there! Stobey's heart almost stops. She feels herself falling. Out of nowhere, a hand grasps one of her ankles and she feels herself drawn in. Her hands find the bar. Chug holds her until her grip on the bar is firm and she is safe again.

 'Hmmm,' Chug smiles, 'maybe we're better off staying together.'

 Stobey gulps and nods. She glances at Slutter who nods in return.

 'I think I'll put off doing a somersault or holding on with my toes,' Slutter says, 'at least until I practice.'

 'I guess you're right,' Stobey says, 'I think I'll wait a while before I try that again.'

 The trapeze reaches the end of its swing. Up ahead is another mountain top with a tiny platform at the peak. The platform is attached to a pole like the one they left. As their feet touch the platform they each grasp the railing.

 They are on firm footing again. Chug ties the trapeze bar to the rail.

 'Did you enjoy the ride?' Chug asks Stobey.

 'Sure did.'

 'The same goes for me,' adds Slutter.

 'How will you describe this ride to your parents and to your friends?' Chug asks.

 Stobey and Slutter whisper to each other, then, together, they gaze up and point to where the trapeze lines disappear into the far, far distance of space.

 'We'll tell them all,' Stobey grins up at her tall friend, 'at Super-Rock Park we met Chug-a-lug, the Hooten-Nanny, and the three of us had a wonderful time swinging from a star.'

 'I can't think of anything nicer to say,' Chug smiles. 'Let's do some more exploring and see what we can find.'

 Chug-a-Lug the Hooten-Nanny reaches down, wraps one arm around Stobey and the other around Slutter, and draws them close. He leaps up and away and, laughing together, the three friends are off to greet:

 VISITORS FROM PLANET EARTH

 With the trapeze adventure behind them, our three friends are on the path that leads to the Super-Rock Midway.

 'The Midway,' says Chug, 'is the fanciest and flashiest Midway between Planet Mars and Planet Pluto far out on the Solar rim.'

 You're right,' says Stobey. 'This Midway really is the last word in midways and I'm looking forward to seeing it. How about you, Slutter?'

 'Yep,' Slutter says, 'me too.'

 Up ahead, they see the gate leading into the Midway. It's on the other side of the space-block where the bus line space ships are moored to the tops of tall towers. Spaceships smaller than busses land on the surface, so they're lined up in parking lots.

 'Let's cut across the parking block,' says Chug, 'it'll shorten the walk to the gate.'

 'Fine,' says Stobey.

 They head across, cutting in and out among the rows of parked space ships and space buggies.

 Half way across they suddenly they feel a deep, thrumming vibration from space. Looking up, they see a gigantic, pancake-shaped, interplanetary space liner moving in above the parking block. Interplanetary space liners are not like the little single-seaters, family wagons, or even the big bus line and ferry space ships that carry folks like Stobey and Slutter from their homes to Super-Rock. Space liners are much larger than the biggest ocean liners that sailed the seas of Planet Earth long ago, and you've seen in history books how enormous they were.

 Stobey, Slutter and Chug watch as the huge space liner slows and stops in space just above the Super-Rock Playground. Colored lights flash and glow brightly all across its underside, along its rim, and through thousands of portholes.

 'What's that space liner doing here?' Stobey asks, turning to stare at Chug.

 'Gosh, I don't know,' Chug replies. 'I don't recall ever seeing a big spacer like that coming to Super-Rock. They always go to the big space ports in orbit around moons Io and Europa. I wonder what's going on.'

 They watch the space liner, and after a short while see one of the huge panels along its side move aside. An orange-and-green-striped space boat drifts out and holds in place. The space boat is as big as a bus and is known as a 'flitter.' Flitters are used to ferry people and cargo back and forth between big spaceships, or among planets, satellites and other places where the big interplanetary ships can't land. As Stobey, Slutter and Chug watch, the tail of the flitter glows yellow and the space boat turns down toward the surface.

 'Look, look,' Slutter yells. 'The flitter is heading this way.'

 The flitter hovers just above the Super-Rock parking block. Stobey waves her arms.

 'Over here, over here,' she yells. 'Here's a parking slot. Right over here.'

 Slutter rushes to the empty parking slot and waves up at the flitter. The pilot must have seen him. He guides the flitter to the slot and lands gently.

 Stobey and Chug rush up beside Slutter. Together, they watch the flitter's door.

 'I wonder who'll be coming out,' Slutter says.

 '...or what'll be coming out,' Stobey mumbles. 'There are many strange beings living in our Solar System.'

 'Yes,' adds Chug, 'real strange.' His long, thin spaghetti-like head bobs up and down. His long, thin spaghetti-like body sways. 'Yes,' he repeats with a nod.

 Stobey and Slutter look at Chug and then at each other. They smile. They know Chug looks different than they do. They also know that all people and things look a little different from each other, and looking and being different is natural and just fine. They turn back to stare at the flitter's portal.

 The portal slips aside. It's dark inside.

 A ladder slowly lowers from the portal and unfolds as it approaches the surface. They hear a clicking sound and the ladder locks into place.

 Stobey, Slutter and Chug are quivering with excitement. A space-suited figure moves into the doorway. It stands there, not moving.

 Our three friends look at the space-suited figure, and they see a face through the clear plastic space helmet. The face's eyes are looking at them. Stobey, Slutter and Chug do not need space suits since they're where they live all the time. They're used to getting around just the way they are, but people who come off space liners, they know, aren't able to get around without their own kind of air and pressure. One of the jobs of a space suit is to hold the right kind and mix of air and pressure for the wearers. The space suits do look strange, though.

 'Whatever it is, it's just standing there,' Stobey says.

 'Sure is,' adds Slutter. 'I wonder whatever is in that space suit looks like.'

 'Me, too, Chug mumbles.

 The space-suited figure starts down the ladder. As it leaves the doorway another space-suited figure appears. That one, too, looks around and starts down the ladder.

 Stobey, Slutter and Chug run to the bottom of the ladder.

 'Hi,' Stobey says.

 A voice comes out of a speaker panel on the strange figure's helmet.

 'Hello,' it says, followed a moment later by a 'Hello' from the other space suit.

 'Where are you from? 'Stobey asks.

 'Third planet from the Sun.'

 'Planet Earth?'

 'That's right,' from the other space suit.

 'Well, then, call it that, 'Stobey says. 'Who are you? Do people on Planet Earth have names?'

 'Of course we have names. Every one on Planet Earth has a name. How could we tell each other apart, or write each other letters, or call each other on the telephone if we didn't each have our own name.'

 'We also have names,' Stobey says. 'My name is Stobey and,' she points to Slutter, 'this is my friend, Slutter.'

 Stobey points straight up at Chug's head towering above her and adds,

 'This is our guide around Super-Rock Playground and He's our friend. His name is Chug-a-lug, and He's a Hooten-Nanny.'

 'We're very happy to meet you,' says the voice from the first space suit.

 'Now tell us your names,' Stobey says.

 'Our names,' says the same voice, 'are Suzanne and Roger. I'm Suzanne.'

 'Suzanne and Roger. What strange and interesting names.' Stobey repeats the names a few times, and so do Slutter and Chug. 'Suzanne and Roger. Suzanne and Roger. Hm..m..m, strange sounding names, really strange.'

 'They're not strange where we come from,' says Roger.

 'I suppose not,' says Stobey. 'Tell us, Suzanne and Roger, why has an interplanetary space liner come to Super-Rock Playground. Aren't the regular ports for space liners in orbits above Io and Europa?'

 'Well, yes,' Suzanne says. 'We're on our way to Europa to visit our uncle who's in charge of a space colony. The colonists are also people from Planet Earth.'

 'The Captain of our space liner told us the port at the Europan colony is temporarily filled with other space liners,' Roger adds, 'so he brought our liner here for a couple of hours to wait until a mooring slot for us opens up there.'

 'Right,' Suzanne adds. 'When we got here and saw this beautiful playground we asked the Captain if we could visit it for a while. As you see, he agreed, and here we are.'

 'We're certainly glad you came,' Stobey says. 'We're heading for the Midway. Would you like to join us?'

 'Oh, yes,' says Roger, 'we sure would.'

 'Yes, we would like to join you,' says Suzanne, 'and we thank you for the invitation. But we must be back aboard the space liner in two hours. Will you be sure that we don't miss getting back here in the parking block in time to lift off?'

 Chug steps forward. He draws himself up to his full height, raises one spaghetti-thin arm to point upward, and speaks with a deep voice.

 'It shall be my honor and my pleasure,' he says, 'to show you all the wonders of the Great Super-Rock Midway, and then to bring you back here in time to return to your space liner. I, Chug-a-lug the Hooten-Nanny, will be your guide.'

 He proudly points at the brilliant, many-colored lights of the Super-Rock Midway.

 'We're off to the Midway with a fanfare, and in our finery and frippery,' his voice booms like a drum, 'to see a galaxy of games which give everyone gales of galloping giggles. If you wish, you can gulp gallons of grape juice, and gaze and even gawk at glittering gold goblets and gargantuan gemstones. You can also buy gewgaws, gimmicks, gizmos, and glamorous gifts to give to your friends.'

 Chug starts across the parking block, taking long steps.

 'Hold on, there, Chug,' Stobey calls after him. 'Slow down. Your long legs take such big steps we can't keep up with you.'

 Chug turns and looks back. He waits until Stobey, Slutter, Suzanne and Roger catch up. They form a line across, Chug in the middle, Stobey and Suzanne on one side and Slutter and Roger on the other. The two children on each side of Chug link arms. Chug's arms are so long that they reach down to where his hands can be held by whoever is next to him. With Chug's booming voice describing what they will see, they head for the gate into the Midway of Super-Rock Playground.

 Overhead, the great space liner from Planet Earth waits patiently for Stobey and Slutter who are getting ready to meet:

 SIR LUMPALOT AND KICK-POW

 Our friends, Stobey and Slutter, Suzanne and Roger and, of course, Chug-a-lug, the Hooten-Nanny are all walking side-by-side across the spaceship parking block. They are close to the entrance to the Midway. The gate is just ahead. Lights are flashing. Children and grown-ups, of many sizes and shapes, are moving in all directions.

 'Halt! Halt, I say. Stay right where you are!'

 The order bursts up at them from right under their feet. Stobey jumps aside. Slutter leaps straight up. Suzanne and Roger stand still, shocked. Chug doesn't move, and says nothing. He looks down and points.

 A hole forms in the ground where they were standing a moment before. At first they don't see the hole because it's as small as a pinhead. It spreads quickly until it's as big as the hole in the center of a doughnut.

 That's when they see it. The hole grows to the size of a basketball. It stops expanding for a couple of seconds as if to catch its breath; then with a shiver and a shake it's as big as a bulldozer tire. That's when it stops growing.

 A clatter and a rumble wells up like hooves pounding hard-packed earth. The clatter grows louder and closer. The ground shakes. By this time Stobey and Slutter are holding on to each other. Suzanne and Roger stand close by, confused by what's happening. They feel themselves to be strangers, and don't know what to expect. And Chug? Well, he just stands there.

 A cloud of dust suddenly puffs up out from the hole. It forms into a cloud and drifts away. Another cloud of dust rises in which floats a long smooth shaft. The shaft is smooth and rises up out of the hole. The other end is attached to a head. The head is that of a small white animal that looks like a horse.

 Another cloud of dust. The animal leaps up out from the hole. It's a unicorn, and on its back is a saddle, and in the saddle is a knight in pure white armor, and in the knight's grip is a lance pointing straight at where our friends are standing.

 The front of the knight's helmet is open. In the middle of his face is a pudgy nose, above the nose are fierce eyes, and under the nose a long, bristly, handlebar mustache that ends with three twirling loops on each side.

 'Who are you?' he roars. 'What do you want here?'

 Stobey steps forward until she is right under the unicorn's head.

 Looking up, she shakes her finger at the knight.

 'Before we go any further,' she says, 'you point that lance somewhere else.'

 The knight in white armor stares at Stobey for a five seconds.

 'Umm.. ., ah...,' he says as he lowers the lance until it points at the ground. 'OK. Is that better?'

 'Yes, that's better,' Stobey says. 'Now, I'm Stobey and ...' pointing ... this is my friend Slutter, and these are our new friends from Planet Earth, Suzanne and Roger.'

 She points up at Chug. 'Do you know Chug-a-lug?'

 'Um.. ah...,' the knight mumbles. 'I know Chug. We're old friends.'

 'Ah, so,' Stobey said, 'and who are you?'

 'Um ah me? Ah, yes. I'm Sir Lumpalot. This is my unicorn Kick-Pow.'

 Kick-Pow nods and paws at the ground. He is pleased to be introduced.

 'And where are you from, Sir Lumpalot?' asked Slutter.

 Sir Lumpalot looks at Slutter and straightens in his saddle. 'I'm Sir Lumpalot, and I come from the Land of Lumps, of course,' he says.

 'Where else would I be from?'

 'And what do you do in the Land of the Lumps?' Stobey asks.

 The knight turns fierce eyes to glare at Stobey.

 'I am a knight,' he says, 'and I have a very responsible job. I keep order among all the Bumps, Clumps, Stumps, Grumps, and especially Chumps, that live in the Land of Lumps. That's why I'm named Sir Lumpalot.'

 'What else do you do?' Stobey asks.

 'Well, I also guard the Palace of the King,' Sir Lumpalot drew himself up proudly and harrumphed his mustache into another curl.

 'And where would that be?' Slutter cut into the harrumphing.

 'Where? Why, in the Royal Square, that's where.' Another 'harrumph.'

 'Tell them how you guard it,' Chug says.

 'Well, twice a day I circle the Square.'

 Stobey giggles, and so does Slutter. Suzanne and Roger are politely silent.

 'I see. You circle the Square. Well, what do you do if you see someone who doesn't belong?' Stobey asks.

 'Chase them around the nearest corner away from there, of course.'

 'Isn't it strange for a grown knight and a unicorn to spend their time circling a Square?' Roger is polite with his question.

 'That's my job,' says Sir Lumpalot.

 'Well, if that's your job,' says Slutter, 'what are you doing here?'

 'Oh, I got a message that all of you were heading this way,' Sir Lumpalot replies with a grin so wide it adds two more loops in his mustache and they curl up so tight that the tips disappear back into the helmet. 'Kick- Pow and I just thought we'd startle you, just for the fun of it. It worked, didn't it?'

 Sir Lumpalot laughs and pats Kick-Pow's silky smooth neck. Kick-Pow snorts and paws the ground.

 'Hmph. OK, Sir Lumpalot,' says Stobey, 'now that you're here, would you and Kick-Pow like to join us in our visit to the Midway?'

 Sir Lumpalot gives a whoop. Kick-Pow bucks. A short one, so as not to jolt his rider.

 'We sure would.'

 'Then let's go!'

 Through the gate they all troop.

 The Midway is spread out before them. Bright and blinking lights, twisting and colored streamers, rainbow colored balls, all flashing, floating and bouncing hither and yon. Slutter dashes to a little stall and picks up three darts. One at a time, he aims them carefully at a red balloon on the far wall. He throws the darts. The third dart strikes and breaks the balloon. A robot pops up from behind the counter and hands

 Slutter a tiny toy space ship.

 'What's this,' Slutter laughs. 'I don't need a toy spaceship. I have a real one, all my own.'

 He puts the toy spaceship into his pocket for his baby brother, and joins his friends again. On they go.

 They try different games of skill and take rides in models of pilot's seats on space racers. Time passes quickly.

 As they turn a corner out of the gate from one ride, they hear a hollow booming sound followed immediately by a piercing screech. The sounds fill the air. Sir Lumpalot, who is in the lead, reins in Kick-Pow and halts. He raises his hand in warning. Everyone stops where they are. They stare ahead.

 They see nothing but flashing lights, bouncing balls, and waving ribbons.

 The booming gets louder.

 'There, over there,' Sir Lumpalot shouts, pointing ahead.

 'Where?' Chug-a-lug stares in the direction Sir Lumpalot is pointing.

 'The strange sounds are coming from that house,' the knight replies.

 They see a dark, gray, gloomy-looking house. It has many windows, all dark except for one, and that one shows green and blue lights flashing off and on. The heavy booming sound is coming from inside.

 'What's in that house?' Stobey asks.

 'I don't know,' says Chug. This time he isn't being sly. He really doesn't know.

 'Do you, Sir Lumpalot?'

 'No, I don't.' Sir Lumpalot's voice lowers to a whisper, a loud whisper so that they can all hear him. 'Neither does anyone else. It's the Strangers House.'

 'Let's explore it,' says Stobey.

 'Yes, let's do that now,' Slutter adds.

 'Oh, no, not that house.' Chug waves his long arms about,' says Stobey, 'that house.'

 'And what's more,' says Slutter, 'right now.'

 'Stobey,' Suzanne says, 'You know we do have to be back at our space liner soon. Do you think we should explore the Stranger's House, too. Will there be time?'

 'We can't disappoint our uncle on Europa,' says Roger. 'We mustn't delay departure of the space liner.'

 'Slutter and I must also leave for our homes soon,' says Stobey. 'Let's do a fast exploration and then head back to the spaceship parking block.'

 Stobey points to Sir Lumpalot, then to Chug-a-lug.

 'We'll form a line,' she says. 'Sir Lumpalot, you lead the way. I'll follow. Suzanne and Roger, you walk behind me, and Slutter, you watch over our friends from Planet Earth. Chug, you bring up the rear. We must all stay together.'

 A shadow crosses one of the windows. A creaking sound comes from the house, like that of rusty hinges, followed by still another boom and a screech. A thin wisp of smoke goes down, I mean 'down' the chimney. The exploration of the Stranger's House is starting out mysteriously indeed. Let's go along with our friends as they pass through the door:

 INTO THE STRANGER'S HOUSE

 As our friends approach the house, they hear more creaking noises from inside. The weird screech is heard again. The wisp of smoke that went down the chimney shoots up out again with a whoosh. The smoke twists into a spiral above the house, straightens, darts away and disappears over a low hill.

 'What's going on,' Stobey demands, looking at Chug-a-lug.

 'I don't know, Stobey,' Chug replies.

 'Well,' Slutter says, 'We're here and we may as well check this place out. I think we should go ahead.' He turns to Suzanne and Roger. 'What do you think?' he asks. Suzanne shrugs. Roger nods.

 'OK with us,' Suzanne says, 'We're game. Let's go, as long as we get back to our spaceship in time.'

 Stobey opens the door leading into the house, pokes her head in and looks about. She sees a large room with lots of heavy furniture scattered about. The furniture is covered with white sheets, and the floor and corners of the room are filled with space dust.

 Chug leans in over Stobey and his head swivels in all directions, examining the dusty room.

 'Kind of weird looking, isn't it?' he says.

 The words are hardly out of his mouth when the spine-chilling screech cuts across the room.

 Chug jumps with alarm. 'What's that,' he shrieks. He leaps so high his head strikes the top of the doorway and he let out another howl. Rubbing the top of his spaghetti-thin head he scowls and glowers at the top of the doorway.

 'What's happening? What's happening?' Sir Lumpalot yells from behind. Slutter, Suzanne and Roger crowd forward to see better.

 'I can't tell yet,' Stobey calls back over her shoulder, pointing. 'The sound came from that corner. Let's see what's there.'

 Stobey steps carefully over the sill, and is followed close behind by Chug and the others. They tighten into a knot and, peering in all directions, tiptoe toward the middle of the huge, shadowy dust-laden room.

 Without warning, another screech. Our friends grab each other. They look around, then quickly up and down. They can't see anything that might be causing the strange noise.

 Slutter points. There, in the floor, near one of the walls, is a trap door.

 'There's a cellar under this house,' he says, 'and that's where the booming and the screeching must be coming from. Do you think we should go down?'

 Stobey thinks for a moment. 'Well,' she answers, 'it's the only way to find out who, or what, is making that noise. Also, what about the shadows that crossed the window, and what about that crazy smoke that went down and back up out of the chimney, and then twisted and curled and raced away? I'd like to find out what's going on.'

 Slutter walks to the trap door and lifts it. A staircase stretches down into darkness. Stobey stands beside Slutter and looks; nothing but darkness.

 'Let's go,' Stobey starts down the narrow stairway.

 Slutter is close behind her, followed by Chug, Suzanne and Roger, and at the end Sir Lumpalot on Kick-Pow. Being a unicorn, Kick-Pow has no trouble at all going up and down stairways. He does have to be careful, though, so that his horn doesn't scrape the walls or bump into the overhead.

 The stairway takes one turn and then another. The turns explain why Stobey and Slutter couldn't see much from the top. At the bottom is a small square space lighted by a tiny lamp. Leading off from the space is an opening to a narrow passageway.

 Stobey doesn't wait. She enters the narrow passageway, followed by the others. They advance only a short distance and, again, the weird screech rings out, this time from up ahead and much louder. A booming, rasping noise follows the screech. It sounds like heavy chains being dragged across rocks.

 'Be careful,' Slutter warns from behind Stobey.

 'Yes,' Chug says, 'let's all be careful.'

 'Light up ahead,' Stobey announces.

 The light is far off, but as they get close it brightens. The passageway by now is well lit. Up ahead the passageway bends.

 They turn the bend. They're in a large cavern. The floor is covered with dust and stones, and in the center is what appears to be an enormous black boulder.

 Suddenly, from above, erupts the same screech they heard before, wild and shrill. Our friends leap back away as their eyes dart up.

 There, standing on top of the rock, looking down at them is an eye, round and staring. Around the eye are spikes, long and sharp, and directly above the eye is a mouth, wide and open, and from out of the mouth, bursts another screech. And another screech. The screeches become words that hiss and whistle and puff and roar.

 'Who are you? What are you doing here? What do you want?' The screeching fills the room with echoes that bounce from one wall to another and back again.

 Stobey, leaning her head back to look at the enormous eye. She places her hands on her hips and says, 'Now, look here, whatever and whoever you are, you just stop that screeching, hissing, whistling, puffing and roaring and talk to us properly and politely, and we'll do the same. We're visitors here, and I'll introduce myself and my friends. Then you tell us who you are and we'll have a nice chat. OK?'

 'Well, OK.' The eye blinks a couple of times and speaks in a gentle hiss; the whistle, puff and roar are gone.

 Stobey introduces herself and her friends. 'Now it's your turn,' she says.

 'My name is Bingbang Babbaloo,' the eye says, 'and I am the guardian of this Great Rock.'

 'We saw strange-looking smoke go down and then come back up the chimney,' says Slutter. 'What was that all about?'

 'Oh, that's my robo-assistant, Bizz Bazz. He goes on errands for me and uses the chimney as his way in and out of the house. I sent him for a couple of hamburgers a little while ago. I hope he doesn't forget the French Fries and the catsup. I love French Fries and catsup, don't you?'

 'Oh, I love French Fries and catsup, too.' Chug grins.

 'Me, too,' from Sir Lumpalot. Kick-Pow paws the ground and tosses his head in agreement. It's close to his mealtime.

 'Let's get back to my questions, Bingbang Babbaloo,' says Stobey. 'What is this Great Rock and why do you guard it?

 'What is this Great Rock?' Bingbang voice is almost back to a screech. 'Why do I guard it? The Great Rock holds the treasure.'

 'What treasure? I don't see treasure.'

 'Of course you don't, the treasure is inside. Would you like to see it?

 'Yes, I would,' says Stobey and everyone with her nods.

 Bingbang blinks three times. The huge rock shakes violently and the cavern fills with the sound of heavy dragging chains. A crack appears in the rock. The crack widens, lengthens, and curves along the top and forms into a door. The door opens and they look into a lighted vault.

 On the floor, in the center of the vault is an enormous chest, and filling the chest and hanging over its edges are hundreds of loops of bracelets and pearls. Alongside the chest and scattered about are casks and buckets of brilliant diamonds, rubies and emeralds. Along the walls are rows of gold and silver bars and mounds of gold nuggets, and still more boxes overflowing with precious gems.

 'My goodness, Bingbang Babbaloo,' exclaims Stobey, 'Where did you get all of this treasure?'

 'Would you really like to know?' Bingbang blinks.

 Everyone nods again.

 'Good. Sit and listen to the story about my adventure on a strange planet that circles a distant star. It was there that I:

 BINGBANG BABBALOO BATTLES BURPERS

 Why does Bingbang Babbaloo guard the treasure in the Great Rock under the Stranger's House in Super Rock Playground? Where did the treasure come from? Why are the treasure and Bingbang Babbaloo in this old house in the Super-Rock Playground? Everyone wants to know.

 Stobey and Slutter, Chug-a-lug and Sir Lumpalot, Suzanne and Roger, and of course, Kick-Pow, the Unicorn, gather before Bingbang, whose strange body rests on top of the Great Rock in which the treasure is stored. Bingbang's single, spike-rimmed eye blinks slowly down at them as he speaks in a soft hiss.

 'I have traveled to this place from a distant star,' he begins, 'and my journey has been full of adventures and dangers. Many times I had no food and I was often so tired I could barely see. But I had a job to do.'

 'Where were you going?' asks Stobey.

 'Yes,' adds Slutter, 'and what was your job?'

 Bingbang's single eye glares at Stobey and Slutter. 'Now, listen here, you two.' His voice rises to an exasperated screech and lowers to a wheeze, and winds up as a whistle. 'If you want to hear this story you'll just have to be quiet and just listen, instead of interrupting. Mind your manners and your questions will be answered. OK?'

 'Well, OK,' says Stobey.

 'Hmph,' says Slutter.

 Bingbang's voice returns to a low hiss, but its sound fills the cavern.

 'My voyage begins long ago and far away on Planet Boomboom, which is my home. In the green sky above Planet Boomboom is our Sun, Blooper. That's how we assign names where I come from. So, you see, I am Bingbang Babbaloo from Boomboom near Blooper. Got it?'

 No one answers. They're curious to hear more.

 'Ah, yes, well, to get on with it,' Bingbang continues, 'one breezy afternoon on Boomboom I am browsing among the books in my basement. A messenger arrives with a letter from Boogie-woogie

 Boomer, King of Boomboom.

 'Bingbang Babbaloo,' the letter says, 'I, King Boogie-woogie Boomer of Boomboom, command you to leave immediately for Planet Boppo which is near the Sun Bippo. Boppo is the home of the evil Burpers who stole my treasure of gold, diamonds and jewels. When you get to Boppo, I command you to take back my treasures from the Burpers, and return it to me here on Boomboom.'

 'That, Stobey and Slutter, should answer some of your questions. I was going from the Sun Blooper to the Sun Bippo, from the Planet Boomboom to the Planet Boppo. I, Bingbang Babbaloo was to do battle with the bad Burpers for a batch of King Boogie-woogie Boomer's baubles. Now, do you get it?'

 They all nod slowly, and mumble ,'Hmm ahh. Yep. Got it, I suppose. Hmm.'

 'I run to my spaceship, Boomerang, and blast off for Boppo. It's a bumpy voyage. On the way I pass suns and planets, many with strange names on my maps, instead of the sensible ones we have where I come from.

 'After many months I see Bippo up ahead. Bippo is a funny looking sun with purple stripes and round green spots. I search the area and there, off to one side, is the planet Boppo. It's also funny looking: green stripes and purple spots, just the opposite colors of its sun.

 'So here I am at last, ready to land my Boomerang among a lot of Boppoian Burpers near Bippo to do battle for a batch of baubles for my Boomboomaranian King Boogie-woogie Boomer.'

 'Now just a minute, Bingbang Babbaloo.' Stobey jumps up from where she's sitting and shakes her finger at the Eye. 'Now just a minute,' she repeats. 'I want to hear your story, and I'm sure my friends also want to hear it, but I would appreciate it very much if you told the story without using so many words that begin with B. It's confusing.'

 'Well,' says Bingbang, 'all right, but that's the way we talk at home. Anyhow, back to my story. I scout the planet of the Burpers from far above, and see a castle on a hill. I land my ship in a forest clearing nearby and sneak around and over rocks and along gullies toward the castle that I saw from the sky. Finally, up close, I see that the drawbridge is down. A truck without a driver is the side of the road, that's careless of them, I must say. I climb into the truck, switch on the motor, and drive across the drawbridge.'

 Bingbang's huge round eye blinks slowly.

 He continues, 'I stop the truck in an alley and wait until night. In the darkness I drive the truck out of the alley and into another and then still another and another, searching for the place where the treasure is hidden. Soon it will be daylight, but no luck. I know that in the morning light I'll be seen and captured. I have very little time.

 'I turn a corner and up ahead I see the outline of a large blockhouse. I drive closer and see bars across its windows and doors.

 'Aha, I think. This must be the place. I sneak to one of the doors and peek through the bars. Nothing. I slip around to the windows and peek through. Again, nothing. I circle around to another side of the blockhouse and to another, looking through the bars of doorways and windows. Finally, through one of the windows I see my King's stolen chest of diamonds, jewels, gold and silver.

 'I look around carefully. No guards. The Burpers must think that the blockhouse is safe in their castle-fortress. They didn't stop to think that I, Bingbang Babbaloo, would come to rescue my King's treasure.

 'I drive the truck close to the window behind which the stolen treasure is stored. Drawing my heavy blaster I rake the beam across the doorway. The door dissolves. I enter the blockhouse and load the treasure into the truck. With all the treasure on board, I slip behind the wheel, turn the motor on and race along one narrow, twisty alley after another and soon am at the drawbridge. I'm across the drawbridge and head for my space ship.

 'Behind me I hear the noise of sirens and whistles. The alarm. The Burpers are after me. I slam my foot on to the speed pedal. The truck engine races, faster and faster. I must get to my space ship in time. The sirens and whistles are louder. They're close behind me; I mean, lots of them, one Burper after another. 'I drive the truck around tight turns in the road. The enemy is closing in. Luckily, I have an emergency escape plan. It's time to put my plan into action.

 'Bingbang Babbaloo to Boomerang,' I call through my radio transmitter.

 'Come in, Boomerang, old buddy.'

 'Boomerang is in my plan for escape. My space ship Boomerang is also a robot that can follow my orders even when I'm a great distance from it.

 'Yes, master,' Boomerang's metallic voice sounds in my ear.

 'Zero in on me,' I order, 'and hover just above this truck.'

 'Will do.'

 'A moment later Boomerang is directly above the truck.

 'Lift this truck on the ship's crane,' I order, 'and draw it into the ship's hold.'

 'Just as the Burpers are ready to cast a chain around my rear bumper, I feel the truck being lifted from the road. Seconds later, I and the truck and the King's treasure are safely inside my ship. I blast away from Boppo.

 'The Boppoian Burpers blast away at Boomerang. My ship dodges one way and then the other. Bam! Bam! Boomerang is caught in a barrage. I barrel roll the ship into space to get away. The barrage follows, but I'm not beaten yet. I give Boomerang all the power it can take.

 'The Burpers take after me in their space fighters, firing all their beamers. I keep dodging.

 'I release a blockbuster bomb. The Boppoian Burpers see it and blast themselves in another direction to get away from the bomb. This gives me the time I need to escape.

 'I do get away, but my ship is damaged. I will not be able to make the long flight home.

 'After many weeks of limping along, and wandering a long distance from the flight paths shown on my maps, I find myself here at Super-Rock, only part of my way home. I have brought my ship with its treasure here to this cavern. Since my arrival it's been known as the Stranger's House.

 'Now I am waiting.'

 'Waiting? Waiting for what?' asks Stobey.

 'I am waiting for rescue,' Bingbang hisses softly. 'I have sent a message to my king, telling him where I am. He is sending a ship for me. The loud booming and the other sounds you heard when you came near the Stranger's House were the messages between my rescuers and me. They should be here at any moment.'

 Bingbang pauses, and they see his eye blinking in concentration.

 'Aha,' he says, 'I hear them.'

 They listen. A hum fills the air. It gets louder and louder and the cavern walls shake from the deep vibrations.

 Without warning, there is a sudden whoosh, and the roof of the cavern above the huge black rock lifts away. Above is a waffle-shaped spaceship with thousands of flashing lights all across its underside and along its edges. It is much larger than the space liner on which Suzanne and Roger were traveling.

 A wide opening appears in the spaceship's underside and a long cable with many nets and hooks lower from it through the opening above the black rock. The hooks and nets wrap around the rock in which the treasure is stored. The cables tighten. Slowly, the rock breaks away from the surface and rises.

 Bingbang Babbaloo, standing on the rock, rises with it. Bizz Bazz floats beside him. Bingbang's round, spikey eye blinks.

 'Good-bye, good-bye,' he says. I wish you well. Perhaps we will meet again some day.'

 'Good-bye, Bingbang Babbaloo,' Stobey cups her hands near her mouth so that her voice carries. 'I hope we do meet again some day.'

 Stobey sees Bingbang Babbaloo's eye blink at her. She knows he heard. The black rock disappears into the spaceship. With a deep roar, the spaceship blasts away, heading for planet Boomboom near the sun Blooper with the treasure for King Boogie-woogie Boomer.

 GOING HOME

 Our friends leave the Stranger's House and head for the parking block. Arriving, they see that the space liner is signaling Suzanne and Roger to return. The two Earthlings hug Stobey and Slutter, and Chug-a-lug and Sir Lumpalot. They rub Kick-pow's nose and board the flitter.

 The flitter rises in a long curve toward the space liner and disappears through an open panel. The panel closes and the huge ship's powerful motors glow and hum. The spacer rises up and away.

 Stobey and Slutter hug Chug-a-lug and Sir Lumpalot and also rub Kick-pow's nose. It is time for them to return home. They board Coconut and Banana and blast into space. Chug-a-lug, Sir Lumpalot and Kick-Pow watch the two tiny spaceships until they disappear into the background of stars.

 'Hope they come back soon,' says Chug-a-lug, the Hooten-Nanny, as he, Sir Lumpalot the Knight and Kick-Pow the Unicorn head back through the gate into Super-Rock Playground.

 PART FIVE LORE AND MEMOIRS

 Lore adapts to prevailing circumstances and lifestyles, and to cultures and environments other than the times and places where they had their roots. The familiar may be comfortable, but youngsters also listen eagerly to new twists in a myth, another version of a familiar legend, the results of experiments, and of trials as well as triumphs in the human experience.

 In storytelling, a culture's traditions, mythology and values offer opportunities to insert a sense of history into the tale, and add context to interactions among the family's constituents and the continuity to its generations. Excessively repeated, they might appear as frayed and corny platitudes. Yet, within the majority of families, a culture's mythology, traditions and values retain their relevancy and often, their majesty.

 Tradition passes history to a new generation on what happened to the family over the years, and, to the extent possible, the reasons. Grandparents' stories and lore convey facts and interpretations about customs, events and personalities and how they became part of the family's structure. Tradition supports the family's sense of generational continuity.

 Social and cultural awareness can provide sanctuary for education, law enforcement, science, sports, health care, religion, and more. They encourage the evolution of concepts, principles and systems that civilizations need to make life livable and enjoyable. Awareness includes what is wrong with the way things are, as well as what is right.

 Values are what it's about: the bottom line. Values, however, are a mixed bag, and passing them along through stories, lore and memoirs is a matter of memory, selection, circumstances, and emphasis. Values might include: stimulating a sense of self-esteem in others; consideration for another's sensitivities; respect for life; repairing Planet Earth; knowing the differences between pity, sympathy, compassion, and empathy; striving to be honest and fair; and respect for institutions and laws but being willing to act within the law to change those no longer suitable for the common good. Grandparents (and parents) often prefer to stress personal proclivities and biases in passing along family values. Values, right or wrong in your view, add substance to awareness and tradition.

 If, at first, you have qualms about striking out with your own memoir or family history, try giving your version of a well-known myth, legend or folk story. They already have a well-defined plot, characters, and settings. You can replace and rephrase parts with how you would like the story to appear. Use the stories and essays in this book or the public library as models or points of departure for your storytelling letters and experiments.

 STORIES TO THE WORLD

 One way to get into storytelling is by giving your own version of a well- known folk tale, a popular myth, or even one of Aesop's fables. The plots, characters, and structures of these stories have been handed along from one generation to the next for centuries, and have already passed the test of time. As soon as you start your story you join a historical procession and launch yourself into the new and wondrous world of imagination.

 Storytellers are occasionally asked how the story just told to them, came to be. Here are a few paragraphs from my version of an old West African folk tale about the source of all stories and how they came to be. The folk tale relates one of the adventures of Anansi, the Spider-man, a mythical trickster among the Ashanti, the Wolofs, and other peoples of Ghana and West Africa.

 Anansi's fame has spread throughout the world, and generally depicts him as a conniver and full of deviltry. In the well-known story Spider and the Box of Stories, Nyami, the Lord of the Sky, keeps a box beside him in which are all the world's stories. Spider asks Nyami for the box so that he can release the stories. Nyami agrees to give him the box if he will first bring a python, a leopard, a hornet, and a creature that none can see. Spider does so by first misleading his victims with falsehoods and then capturing them with trickery and pain.

 Nyami, nevertheless true to his word, gives Spider the box of stories and Spider releases them to the world. The myth, told in this fashion, depicts how a noble gift from the Lord of the Sky enters the world through dishonesty and the abuse of creatures that are also under Nyami's care. In Stories To The World I tried to replace deception and entrapment with respect for life.

 Alamander, whose name was arbitrarily shortened from Salamander by my grandson during a story conference, has a parrot Aringabella; my grandson merely added an 'a' to each end of 'ring a bell.' The problem is the same as in the Spider story: long, long ago the people of the world had no stories.

 After successfully testing Alamander, the Lord of the Sky turns the box of stories over to him. Alamander, with the box on his back climbs down to the Earth's surface along a rope ladder. He drags the box to the middle of a meadow, and removes the heavy padlock that holds the lid in place. Alamander, with Aringabella gripping his shoulder firmly and helpfully flapping his wings, lifts the lid and steps back to watch all of the world's stories gain their freedom to roam the world forever. This is what happen.

 There was moment of deep silence. Suddenly, the heavy lid flew up and over, and crashed to the ground. From out of the box's darkness gusted a powerful wind that whirled about and away in a cloud of dust.

 In an instant there rose from out of the box swarms and tangles of flapping wings, waving arms, running legs, grasping claws, writhing tentacles, and a horde of strange wriggling shapes Their number was beyond counting. And from this twisting mass came sounds of laughing and crying, whining and humming, rustling and chattering, shouting and whispering, and snarling and hissing and howling, and even sounds for which, even now, there are no ways to describe.

 Up and away, flying and running, strutting and crawling, staggering and marching and plodding and toddling, they cascaded over the sides of the box. Some took to the air, others moved toward the forest where they disappeared into trees, shrubs and flowers, and into the burrows of tiny animals and the caves of larger beasts. They dove into the river and the sea, and dug themselves into the ground or slithered under rocks. A few raced each other across the meadow and slipped into the homes and shops of the nearby village. They took to the air and the sea for distant places. Soon they were everywhere.

 What did they look like? They looked like everything and anything: trolls and elves, trees and clouds, birds and people, horses and barns, airplanes and boats and spaceships and stars in the sky, and all the things that are or ever were, and also things that are not and never could be. Stories look like anything that ever happened and which might yet happen in years and centuries to come. And stories are whatever people might wish for, and things of which they are afraid.

 Soon the stories were all gone from the box in which they had been kept locked until someone came along who really wanted them freed. Now the stories could go wherever they wished, and to be for all time among the peoples of the world.

 When people saw the stories, they took them in and gave them the food and shelter that stories need to be strong. In return the stories gave pleasure and knowledge and, at times, sadness, to the peoples of the world. Stories try to give those who listen carefully an understanding of how the Lord of the Sky means for the world to be.

 Sometimes, the stories from Nyami's box did not change, and at other times, they were changed about by storytellers to give them other meanings. Sometimes this was good; at other times, it was not good, but it's how stories are meant to be. However they are changed, all stories are gifts from the Lord of the Sky, who has many names.

 What happened to Alamander and Aringabella?

 Alamander grew from boy to man, and, in time, he married and had a family. With the wise advice of his friend, Aringabella, he became a respected elder among the people of his village.

 Often, in the evening, when the day's work was done and with his parrot perched securely on his shoulder, Alamander would lead his family to a quiet clearing along the riverbank where they would sit facing the river. They studied the world around them: flowers and trees, grass and rocks, and fallen leaves pushed along the ground by soft breezes. They looked out at the river and saw fish breaking the surface, and they listened to the hum of insects, the songs of birds, and the squeaking of bats. Raising their eyes, they gazed at the stars in the black velvet dome above, and they spoke their thoughts of how all these things came to be.

 And as they marveled, Alamander would tell again how he and Aringabella had helped to bring stories to the world, and of the wonder of the place from which the box of stories had come.

 ''The people of Planet Earth,' he would say at the end, 'must deserve this great gift from the Lord of the Sky.''

 MEMOIR: OUTER SPACE LOGISTICS OF THE FUTURE?

 There is a convergence of increased public and scientific focus in this early 21st century concerning:

 1. the Earth's steadily diminishing reserves of accessible nonrenewable industrial metals, minerals, ores and other natural substances that are essential to sustain an industrial base for the future;

 2. aggressive initiatives and committed programs by governments and the private sector to create the means by which humankind will transform into realities their visions of becoming a 'space-faring' species, and

 3. rapidly evolving technological and logistics capabilities to explore, search for, and acquire essential substances from elsewhere throughout the Solar System and beyond.

 I recently finished a science novel in ebook format that I began in 1984 and kept at in spurts afterwards. The 'problem' presented in the story is real and its potential effects on future generations are finally beginning to be recognized. I believe that 'creative' speculation about humankind's future Ð in the light of the scenarios explored in the books: LIMITS TO GROWTH have an important role to play in hard speculative and science fiction as well as other media.

 #=========

 The text of the novel: 'THE UNIVERSE--or nothing' may be freely downloaded from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at:

 http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/18257

 and MANYBOOKS at:

 http://manybooks.net/titles/moldeven1825718257.html

 ##

 Scenarios in the famous 1972 'Report to the Club of Rome: The Limits to Growth' suggest that, within the next 100 years, unless worldwide corrective changes are made in time to change traditional physical, economic, or social relationships, society will run out of the nonrenewable resources on which the industrial base depends. According to the Report, when the world's reserves of nonrenewable resources are exhausted, a precipitous collapse of the economic system, manifested in massive unemployment, decreased food production, and a decline in population will occur. The death rate will soar.

 The original 1972 report 'Limits To Growth' is supported in the follow up 1992 'Beyond The Limits' and the 2005 'Limits to Growth-30 Year Update.'

 #

 An uninterrupted flow of metals, minerals, ores and other precious substances, mostly 'nonrenewable' in nature, are vital to sustain a civilization's industrial base. Earth's reserves of 'industrial base' nonrenewable metals, minerals and ores are sufficient for several centuries; others are not. Manufacture and use of substitute materials is a flourishing industry.

 #

 Most of the world's industrialized nations are planning for or have increasingly active programs to explore the interplanetary realm. News media reported in October 2000 that the People's Republic of China announced plans to search Earth's moon for useful substances. On-site robotic systems are well along in analyzing Luna, Mars and other celestial bodies as to their beneficial potentials. In a speech on January 14, 2004 the President of the United States of America unveiled a new vision for space exploration. He called on the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to '...gain a new foothold on the moon and to prepare for new journeys to worlds beyond our own.' É. 'We do not know where this journey will end,' said the President, 'yet we know this: Human beings are headed into the cosmos.' White House Press Release, January 14, 2004.

 #

 The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) has an active Space Logistics Technical Committee:

 http://www.aiaa.org/tc/sl/

 The AIAA) definition of 'space logistics' states:

 'Space logistics' is the science of planning and carrying out the movement of humans and materiel to, from and within space combined with the ability to maintain human and robotics operations within space. In its most comprehensive sense, space logistics addresses the aspects of space operations both on the earth and in space that deal with: design and development, acquisition, storage, movement, distribution, maintenance, evacuation, and disposition of space materiel; movement, evacuation, and hospitalization of people in space; acquisition or construction, maintenance, operation, and disposition of facilities on the earth and in space to support human and robotics space operations, and acquisition or furnishing of services to support human and robotics space operations.'

 #

 In the late 1950's the United States Air Force invited the nation's leading aerospace contractors to present 'pre-program definition' proposals on 'Space Logistics, Operations, Maintenance and Rescue' (PROJECT SLOMAR). An Air Force review of the contractors' proposals was conducted in 1961 at Headquarters, Air Force Logistics Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio.

 I was at that time the Chief of the Plans Branch, Plans and Programs Division of the Directorate of Materiel Management, Sacramento Air Materiel Area (SMAMA), McClellan AFB, California. SMAMA was the focal point for managing USAF worldwide logistics support to specific weapons and support systems, commodities, equipment that was unique to the 'systems' being managed and specific Air Force property sub-classifications of standardized and cataloged parts and assemblies.

 SMAMA was one of eight U.S. Air Force major logistics centers in the continental United States, each of which performed generally comparable functions for their assigned weapons/support systems, commodities, and parts unique to the system. SMAMA's major command was the Air Force Logistics Command (AFLC), Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) responsibilities were assigned to the Air Force Systems Command (AFSC).

 The organization, functions, and titles of Armed Forces major commands occasionally change. When this paper was drafted (2006) the 'Major Command' for Air Force logistics management was as follows:

 Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), with headquarters at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, was created July 1, 1992. The Command was formed through reorganization of the Air Force Logistics Command and Air Force Systems Command.

 Mission: AFMC's mission is to develop, deliver and sustain the best products for the U. S. Air Force. It is the Air Force's largest command in terms of employees and funding. AFMC supports other U.S. military forces and allies, and handles major aerospace responsibilities for the Department of Defense.

 This includes research, development, testing, and evaluation of satellites, boosters, space probes and associated systems needed to support specific National Aeronautics and Space Administration projects.

 AFMC researches, develops, tests, acquires, delivers and logistically supports every Air Force weapon system as well as other military non-weapon systems. AFMC works closely with its customers -- the operational commands -- to ensure each has the most capable aircraft, missiles and support equipment possible. (http://usaf.com/orgs/5.htm)

 #

 Initially, (late 1950s) specific 'Space Vehicles' and their major components, parts and assemblies that were in both RDT&E and operations were tentatively assigned to Federal Supply Classification 11 (Missiles) and assigned to SMAMA for limited support. For instance, liaison with various government entities and contractors toward providing specialized government furnished equipment/materials for use in accomplishing specific federal programs.

 Since then the Federal Supply Classification System was reorganized and military 'space systems' and their components were assigned to Federal Supply Classification Group 18 Space Vehicles. Space Vehicle Maintenance, Repair and Checkout Equipment are in Sub-group 4960. (See the Attachment to this memoir.)

 #

 For the 1961 SLOMAR review, Hqs AF Logistics Command and Hqs AF Systems Command established in-house teams of scientists, engineers, logisticians and other experts to review and comment on the SLOMAR contractor participants' analyses and proposal documents. Document reviews were accompanied by oral and audio-visual presentations. I was the SMAMA civilian appointed to one of the AFLC SLOMAR logistics review panels.

 One of my responsibilities as Chief of the Plans Branch was to analyze Hqs AFLC's mission and workload assignments to SMAMA in terms of McClellan AFB facility and manpower workloads. It should be noted here that in addition to SMAMA's worldwide logistics management functions, the installation on which the SMAMA Hqs was situated (McClellan AFB) was also a major USAF industrial supply and maintenance depot capable of highest level (fourth echelon) overhaul of aircraft and support systems, major repair of aircraft, equipment, electronics, and commodities; and supply storage, warehousing, packaging and shipment of a wide range of materiel to U S Air Force, other DOD and U S government entities, and allied/military assistance programs worldwide.

 The assignment of depot-level weapons/support systems workloads are highly sensitive to the dynamic technologies and politics associated with military procurements, management and disposition of USAF assets and requirements. Industrial management and maintenance tools and equipment require timely maintenance, replacement or modification to match the needs and schedules of new workload assignments; new tech data is invariably called for, skills update and retraining are literally vital, and more. The acquisition of new and replacement depot level industrial tools and specialized equipment are almost always long lead-time assets and often require years to design, manufacture and install. Weapons/support systems worldwide logistics management and accomplishing depot-level supply and maintenance workloads exert powerful influences on the economies and employment in local communities, States, and regions.

 #

 The Cold War's technological and logistical competitions in space between the U.S. and the USSR had high priorities. My interest at the SLOMAR review was to analyze implications in contractors' proposals in the context of SMAMA's logistics management functions and McClellan AFB industrial depot-level maintenance and supply 'capabilities.' SMAMA and McClellan AFB management required such analyses in order to be prepared to respond to higher headquarters requirements for their decision-making on assigning and accomplishing future workloads. It had become evident in the 1950s that the Department of Defense was considering extensive consolidations of military missions and their programmed workloads in order to reduce the number of military installations and corresponding military and civil service personnel. Out-sourcing to the private sector had become an increasingly influential option.

 Since then, several USAF Materiel Command field logistical management and major industrial complexes, plus a number of smaller specialized industrial activities and the installations on which they were situated, were closed by the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC). Mission alignments included transferring massive workloads among AFLC field activities and out-sourcing to the private sector, including logistical management of programmed and active space systems.

 #

 A permanent moon base did not follow the enormous investment of resources toward the Apollo Program's successful achievement of landing humans on the Moon and returning them to Earth. During one of my subsequent business trips to Hqs AFLC in the early-1960s I met one of the headquarters logisticians that had served on one of the SLOMAR review panels. He mentioned that, as far as he knew the SLOMAR archives had been passed along to the LUNEX project. LUNEX logistics, I later learned, would be accomplished by the private sector. LUNEX was a military program; the International Space Station (ISS) a NASA program.

 My Internet search for the Air Force SLOMAR study as a source for this paper was unsuccessful. To see the May 1961 declassified lunar expedition plan (LUNEX) see:

 http://www.astronautix.com/articles/lunpter1.htm#lunex01 # From the LUNEX plan's FOREWORD:

 'This document provides a plan for a manned Lunar Expedition. It was prepared to furnish more detailed information in support of the National Space Program proposed by a USAF committee chaired by Major General J R Holzapple. That report pointed out the dire need for a goal for our national space program. The Lunar Expedition was chosen as the goal since it not only provides a sufficient challenge to the nation, but also provides technical fall-outs for greatly improved space capabilities.

 'Previous editions of this plan have provided guidance and incentive to Air Force technical groups. Consequently, their efforts have established a broad technical base within the Air Force from which rapid advances can be made. This capability has been taken into account in laying out the accelerated schedules in this plan.'

 #

 The bordered block 'AES Lunar Base' at:

 http://www.astronautix.com/craftfam/lunbases.htm states:

 '(Apollo Extension Systems) was planned as the first American lunar base. It would involve minimal modification of Apollo hardware. The Apollo CSM would be modified for long duration lunar orbit storage. Two versions of the Apollo LM would be developed: the LM Taxi, and the LM Shelter. Surface mobility would be provided by an open cab lunar rover within the 2050 kg lunar surface payload capability of the LM Shelter. This preliminary base would require two Saturn V launches to allow two astronauts to explore the vicinity of their LM Shelter over a two-week period. Development was actually begun in May 1966 with plans for a first mission in March 1970. But subsequent cutbacks and then cancellation of further Saturn V production led to the project being completely abandoned in June 1968.

 #

 The first paragraph in the 'Background' section of [current] 'U.S. Space Transportation Policy Fact Sheet, dated January 6, 2005' at

 http://www.ostp.gov/html/SpaceTransFactSheetJan2005.pdf

 states:

 'For over four decades, U.S. space transportation capabilities have helped the Nation secure peace and protect national security, enabled the Nation to lead the exploration of our solar system and beyond, and increased economic prosperity and our knowledge of the Earth and its environment. Today, vital national security, homeland security, and economic interests are increasingly dependent on United States Government and commercial space assets. U.S. space transportation capabilities -- encompassing access to, transport through, and return from space -- are the critical foundation upon which U.S. access to and use of space depends.'

 #

 During informal discussions that accompanied the SLOMAR reviews, observations on 'What are we going to do in deep space when we do get there?' were occasionally and seriously raised.

 Comments explored variations of '... the nature of mankind is to explore the unknown,' 'national defense is vital in our adversarial international environment,' and so on. There was general agreement that ... 'The world must replenish the nonrenewable resources that were consumed since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution.'

 #

 More on Earth's Nonrenewable Industrial-Base Resources

 'Limits to Growth' is not alone.' For decades, scholars warned that the twentieth century's ruthless exploitation of the Earth's natural strategic metals, minerals and other essential substances was certain to impose increasing hardships on future generations. Even so, increasingly powerful and sophisticated probes and extraction machines continue to gouge the land and sea beds in aggressive exploitation of Earth's rapidly diminishing reserves.

 #

 From an article in 'THESIS, A Journal of Foreign Policy Issues, (Winter 1998) includes an article: The Concern for Exhaustible Mineral Resources By Leonora Hagiou, Mining Engineer, Dept of Mineral Resources Evaluation Institute of Geology and Mineral Exploration Dr Werner Hoyer, Minister of State of the Federal Republic of Germany:

 'The increasing use of mineral raw materials from the beginning of the industrial era and the unprecedented high rate of mineral production development especially after World War II has often led to great concern that we shall run out of exhaustible resources.'

 http://www.hri.org/MFA/thesis/winter98/mineral.html

 #

 Jeremy Rifkin, President of the Foundation on Economic Trends and the Greenhouse Crisis Foundation, in Biosphere Politics: A New Consciousness for a New Century (Crown Publishers, New York 1991) reports how industrialized and developed nations exploit the sea beds of the world for their rich deposits of industrial minerals and metals. He notes that the struggle between rich and poor nations and multinational corporations over minerals in the vast oceanic seabed is likely to be heated in the years to come, especially as reserves of land-based minerals approach exhaustion.

 #

 After I retired in 1974, I wondered whether the long term effects of a decline in global, and eventually, Solar System-wide reserves of nonrenewable metals, ores and other industrial resources could be explored and portrayed in fiction. The story would be set in a future era in which the Solar System would be populated throughout by human space-faring civilizations -- but not yet the stars.

 Book Description (THE UNIVERSE--or nothing)

 Two thousand years into the future, densely populated communities and unmanned stations extend from Mercury to Pluto. Humankind's history of wasteful consumption of the Solar System's minerals, metals and other vital, nonrenewable resources forces space civilizations to the brink of disaster. The only remaining option is to reach across interstellar space to the Alpha Centauri star system and draw from it useable substances to replenish Solar System resources. An interstellar mining and hyperspace teleport system is being constructed in Pluto orbit. When completed, the Extractor component will be launched into Alpha Centauri orbit, and the Collector, positioned on the rim of the Solar System, will accept and store the incoming substance for the use of all humankind. The Solar System is split into an Inner and an Outer Region with the Asteroids as border. Relationships between the two Regions are tense, the ruler of Pluto being the leading agitator. The President of the Inner Region's government sends a covert infiltration team to Pluto to neutralize Pluto's ruler dominance over the Outer Region's governments.

 The isolation of colonies in deep space encourages modifying the human brain and body to survive and attain a tolerable quality-of-life along the radically new and dangerous space frontier. The initial primitive steps toward space colonization are behind them; through sheer necessity the dynamics of space governance assumes forms and priorities in the reality of an accelerating pace to meet the demands of humankind's exploding population, unto themselves a species everlastingly outward bound.

 PREPARING FOR A HOLIDAY

 In the mid-1980s I wrote a story for my young, too-faraway grandchildren about a family preparing their home to observe a traditional cultural festival. Their parents read the story to them, garnished with reminiscences of their own childhood. When I visited them, and the timing was right, my grandchildren would take me along to school as their show-and-tell. Most of the time my assignment was to tell or read a story and answer questions. The students asked lots of questions.

 Stories comparable to this one are being constantly drawn from the daily lives, lore and history of almost every family and culture. Tales into which the teller weaves the realities of a family's experiences and history, along with their myths, legends and customs, fascinate children. Consider your own childhood as a source for a story about preparing for a holiday with your family and community. Chronicle the family's preparations for the event's routines, and their interactions. You will be impressed at the story's reception by young and old, and even by the generation in the middle.

 Here, the themes of Sholem Aleichem's The Passover Eve Vagabonds and The Ruined Passover are merged into a story about a five-year old boy's innocent and light-hearted exploration into what makes a holiday. The story reader and listener follow the youngster in a 19th century East European village from the onset of preparations into the opening rituals of Festival.

 #

 The Setting

 The time is the late 19th century and the location is Kasrilevke, a community somewhere in the shifting borderlands of what are now Poland, Russia, the Ukraine and other independent nations that replaced the former Soviet Union. A 'community' might have been an enclosure, a town, part of a district or city, but always a place where the residents lived close together.

 In one context, this is a story for children, in another, it is remembrance for a people.

 The Story

 It was a couple of days after Purim, and Mama was tying her apron. 'Purim is behind us for this year,' she said. 'Now we must clean our house to make it ready for Passover.'

 I watched Mama carefully inspect the parlor, moving from one corner to the other looking like a chicken about to lay an egg. A few days later I saw fresh straw on the parlor floor and a few boxes stacked along one wall. Strings of onions hung in one corner of the room, and on one of the boxes stood a small barrel covered with a white cloth.

 Mama called Father and me to the parlor doorway and, first wagging her finger sternly at Father and then at me she warned us about three dozen times, 'Don't either of you dare set foot in the parlor. Don't even look at its door from a distance, or breathe in its direction.'

 Turning, she closed the door she was talking about, and facing us again, gently but firmly pushed us in a way that left no doubt in my mind that she meant, 'Remove yourselves at once from this place.'

 'With all due respect,' Mama called after us,' bid a hearty good-bye to the parlor until Passover.'

 'The house is fine just as it is,' I said to Father as we were leaving. 'Why is all this happening?'

 In the kitchen, Father sat me on a chair and lowered himself into another nearby. Passover is an important Springtime festival,' he answered. 'Cleaning the house thoroughly and removing all leaven means that we are making a fresh start; we are ridding ourselves of whatever is not pure for Passover.'

 From that moment on, the parlor had an irresistible attraction for me. I had a constant and overpowering desire to see with my own eyes what had suddenly become forbidden to even look upon. That very day, while munching on my afternoon snack -- a piece of bread smeared with chicken fat -- I defiantly dashed to the parlor door, pushed it wide open, and stood in the doorway to begin my adventure of exploring the great mystery of Passover.

 The parlor was brightly lit with sunlight streaming in through a crystal-clear window framed by white curtains. The walls and ceiling had been freshly whitewashed. Along one wall stood our wooden sofa, its color and grain like that of a violin; in the middle of the room was the same round table as always, with its surrounding chairs and benches neatly spaced.

 'What are you doing here?' Mama's voice came from right above me, very stern. 'Standing with bread at the Passover door? Oh, my goodness!' and with two sharp pinching fingers she led me by my left ear to Father.

 'Here,' Mama ordered Father. 'Take a good look at your son. I just caught him, with bread in his hands -- bread, mind you -- standing right there in the doorway of my parlor which has been cleaned for Passover, and where I now keep the Passover borsht.'

 Father shook his head, saying, as he gave me a severe look, 'Tsk, tsk, you did a bad thing.'

 As Mama turned to leave, I noticed a sly grin on Father 's face. Mama glanced back over her shoulder, and he immediately put his serious look back on. Taking me by the hand, he brought me close, lifted me onto the chair beside him, and told me not to look in the parlor again. ' It is forbidden,' he said.

 'Not even from far away?' I asked.

 But Father didn't hear me. He had returned to his book, deep in thought and silent study.

 A few days later, I sneaked back to the parlor and peeked through a crack near the bottom of the door. Mama had passed through that doorway many times since she hauled me away by my ear. Looking through, and twisting my head from side to side to see better, I made out a set of brand new dishes, shining pots, bottles, and a meat salting board. The crack in the door was narrow; I couldn't see beyond its edges to where I just knew would be stacks and sacks and bundles and packages of new Passover utensils, special foods, clothing, and perhaps even a gift for me. I saw again the ropes of onions strung on the wall; they added a special charm to the room.

 I danced away; our home was getting ready for Passover! Passover! Passover!

 More days passed.

 'Perhaps I can trouble your honors to move yourselves and your books out of here to the big alcove?'

 Mama's politeness was really an order. She was dressed in white, had a white kerchief on her head, and held a long broom. Bending her head back, she ignored us and began to inspect the ceiling.

 'Sosil,' she called out. ' Come here with the brush. Get a move on, Sosil, show your face.'

 Sosil, our maid, came in wearing a white cloth on her head just like Mama. She had a wet rag, a long-handled brush, and a pail filled almost to the brim with whitewash. Dipping the brush in the pail, she slapped chalky liquid across the ceiling and along the walls with short strokes. I stood there, watching.

 They didn't let me watch for long. First they told me that a young boy wasn't supposed to just stand around and watch a ceiling being whitewashed, even though it was for Passover. I didn't take the hint. Finally, sounding real busy, Mama said, 'Listen here, young man, how about you heading for the alcove?'

 Taking me by the shoulders, Mama steered me in the direction she wanted me to go. I went, but since I wasn't at all eager to give up watching I circled back. Seeing me return, Sosil strode over, placed her hands on her hips, towering over me like the giant in a story.

 'What a child,' she scolded at me, 'always getting underfoot!'

 Mama looked up from what she was doing. 'Go, for goodness sake,' she said to me, 'go to your father.'

 Sosil reached out, grabbed me, laughed, dabbed whitewash on the tip of my nose and pushed me toward the door, saying, 'and I've never seen such a stubborn child in my life.'

 'This is no time to play games,' Mama said sternly, and lightly paddled my rump as I passed.

 I joined Father wearing my sad face, looking like a wet kitten. He glanced up from his book, patted my shoulder to console me, lifted me to his lap, and returned to his studying.

 'Excuse me,' Sosil's voice came from the doorway, ' the lady of the house told me to tell you to move to the pantry.'

 Sosil came into the alcove loaded with her equipment. She was as white as a ghost from the splattering and drippings, which had clung to her from whitewashing ceilings and walls. Father and I took one look at her, and instantly retreated to the pantry, a place no bigger than a yawn.

 I would like you to understand that Sosil was also a relative, and had been with us for many years. 'When I came here,' she once told me, 'you were not yet born. You grew up under my care. If it weren't for me you'd be who knows where. Whenever there was a tumult, a fracas, or any kind of a mess, you were in the middle of it and I had to go charging in to save you.'

 She would always end with, 'Well now, don't you deserve a thrashing?' and give me a bear hug.

 That's how Sosil used to treat me, paddling me, not hard or mean, though, and sometimes tugging at my hair, and then, just the opposite, wrapping me in an almost smothering embrace. Mama and Father never protested, and never took my part. Sosil did whatever she pleased with me, just as if I were hers, not theirs. But then, as I say, Sosil was family.

 Anyhow, Father and I were now in the pantry. I wandered to a corner and sat on the floor, looking at Father as he rubbed his forehead, chewed his beard, swayed, and sighed, 'Well, that's how it is....'

 It seemed that only a few minutes passed before Sosil showed up, again holding or dragging her tools. Her look told us it was time for us to move on.

 'Where to this time?' asked Father, by now completely bewildered.

 'How do I know?' Sosil shrugged, dipped the brush and slapped whitewash against one of the walls, causing splatters that arced through the air almost to where Father and I were sitting.

 'Into the little storeroom, both of you,' said Mama from the pantry doorway. With her long broom and a new feather duster she looked like a fully armed enemy in a surprise attack. 'The storeroom is as cold as a stone.' Father tried to beg his way out.

 Appeals didn't help. We had to gather ourselves up and move to the storeroom where we both shivered from its chill.

 The storeroom was also narrow and dark. Two people could hardly stand without stepping on each other's toes. Even so, it was a Paradise for me; there were shelves on all sides just begging to be climbed. But Father wouldn't let me; he said I'd fall and break my neck. I paid no attention to him. No sooner was he into his books and I was up on the first, the second, and-quick as a flash--on the top shelf. I was standing, too.

 'Cock-a-doodle-doo!' I crowed loudly, wanting to show Father my great talent. I raised my head quickly as I crowed and before I knew it, I banged the top of my head against the ceiling. I hit with such force that the shock practically knocked my teeth out.

 Father became alarmed, reached up, hauled me down, and looked and felt to see if I was bleeding. A moment later Sosil, followed by Mama, rushed in and both tore into us like we had done something wrong. My own yelling and squirming didn't help.

 'Did you ever see such a wild boy?' Mama asked.

 'That's no boy. That's a little demon,' Sosil replied. As soon as they were certain that I wasn't too badly hurt, Sosil folded her arms and informed us that in a little while we'd be asked to move to the kitchen. The whitewashing in the rest of the house had been finished and the room we were standing in was last. Off we went again. In the kitchen we were joined by our neighbor, big-browed Moshe Ber, who sat with Father on the dairy bench. They poured their hearts out to each other.

 Father complained in a voice loud enough to be heard throughout the house about all the traveling he had done just getting ready for Passover. 'For the past few days,' he shouted, winking at Moshe Ber, 'I've been sent packing from one place to another. I've become a vagabond in my own home; I am in exile, tramping from one place to the next.'

 Moshe Ber grinned at my father as he replied just as loudly, 'That's nothing. I have it much worse. I've been kicked out of my house entirely.'

 They both chuckled and nudged each other with their elbows. From the other room came the sound of Mama and Sosil laughing.

 Our gray cat, licking its paws on a bench near the stove, was more interesting. Sosil said that a cat licking its paws meant that a guest was coming. I still cannot understand how a cat could know that we're going to have company. Anyhow, I went to the cat to tease her for a while. First, I wanted to touch her paw; nothing doing. Then I tried to get her to beg, standing her up on her hind legs; she didn't like that either.

 'Stand up on your hind legs, 'I ordered her and tapped lightly on the tip of her nose. She closed her eyes, turned away, stuck out her tongue, and yawned as if to say, 'Why does this boy bother me so? What does he want of my life?' Being ignored like this annoyed me. Why does this silly cat act like a stubborn mule? I kept teasing her until suddenly she bared her sharp claws and scratched the back of my hand.

 'Mama, help,' I yelled. Mama and Sosil rushed in. They made an uproar over the scratch, and I got a finger-wagging tongue-lashing from both of them.

 'Next time you'll know not to tease cats,' Mama said.

 Cats? All told we had one little pussycat and they warned me about ' CATS!' like we lived in a jungle.

 'Go wash up,' Mama instructed Father, 'and take your son along. Today's lunch will be in the cellar.'

 Sosil took the poker and started moving the pots around on the stove, at first paying no attention to my father, Moshe Ber, or me. Finally, with just one impatient glare she got her message across to Moshe Ber that on the afternoon just before Passover a man's proper place did not include the homes of neighbors who were, themselves, very busy preparing for the holiday. Moshe Ber quickly took the hint, rose, and said good-bye. As soon as he departed, Father, Mama, Sosil and I went down to the cellar for our day-before-Passover lunch.

 I couldn't understand, on our way down the cellar stairs, why Father made faces, shrugged his shoulders, and grumbled, 'What a vagabond life! 'That surprised me. What sort of catastrophe was it having lunch in the cellar? How could the mouth-watering fragrance from barrels of pickles and cabbages, and the yeasty aroma from the crocks of souring dairy products, harm anyone? Also, what was so terrible about making a table out of two upside-down barrels and a breadboard, and using broken barrels and boxes for chairs?

 A lunch, a snack, or any meal, for that matter, in a cellar couldn't help but be a lot of fun. It would give me a chance to ride a barrel. I did wonder, though, what would happen if the barrel rolled sideways too fast and I fell off? Well, I decided, if I fell off I would just climb back up and ride on.

 My only trouble was that Sosil would be watching. I moved fast; before Sosil could interfere I was up and away, riding the nearest barrel like a real horseman heading into the sunset.

 'A new game,' Sosil called out. 'The blunderer wants to break his leg.'

 That was nonsense. I no more wanted to break my leg than Sosil wanted to break hers. I don't know what she wanted of me. She always picked on me and looked on the dark side. If I ran, she said I'd crack my skull; if I went near anything, she said I'd smash it; if I chewed on a button, she would have a fit and shout at whoever was nearby, 'The blunderhead is going to choke himself.'

 But I had a way of getting even with Sosil; the moment I became even slightly sick she turned the world upside down fussing over me, not knowing if she was coming or going.

 The lunch in the cellar went very well and was soon behind us. 'Now, take the child upstairs,' Mama said to Father after we had finished. 'We have to clean the leaven out of the cellar, and then start gathering food for the festival meal.' Before Father could ask Mama where we were supposed to go she pointed to the stairs, 'Up. Up to the attic for a couple of hours.'

 Sosil added quickly, 'See to it that the little bungler doesn't slip and break his bones.' She hurried me out with a push from behind. 'Well, get a move on, bungler. Move.'

 Father followed me and I heard him grumbling, 'The attic. What next? There's a vagabond Gypsy's life for you.'

 What a strange one Father was. Going up to the attic displeased him. If it were up to me, I'd like every week to be the week before Passover so that I could climb the stairs all the way up to the attic. Even the climb up was fun. At any other time I could plead for hours and they wouldn't let me go up to the attic or play on its staircase. Now I scrambled up the stairs like an imp, actually ordered to go. Father came after me, repeating, 'Take it easy. Take it slowly,' but who took it slowly? I felt as if I had wings and was flying up.

 You ought to see our attic. The place was jammed with treasures: smashed and dusty lamps, cracked and broken pots, and torn and rotting clothes so old you couldn't tell if they were men's or women's. Along one side were closed trunks and wooden boxes which must have been loaded with many mysteries. I found an old strip of fur: as soon as I touched it, it crumbled to powder.

 There were pages from old sacred books, a twisted exhaust pipe from a brass samovar, a sack full of feathers, a rusty strainer, and an old palm-branch leaning against a post. I sat under the palm-branch, rustled its dried leaves and imagined I was in a jungle tracking and trapping fierce beasts.

 There was also, of course, the shingled roof. Close to the walls where the roof's slant brought it down within my reach, I touched the shingles with my hands. Being able to touch a roof with your own hands at the same time your feet are solidly standing on a floor is really having a long reach. Right?

 Father sat down on a crossbeam, picked up a few loose pages from a book that had fallen apart, arranged them in some sort of order, and began to read. I moved to the little attic window and looked out far and wide at our village, Kasrilevke. I saw all the houses and their roofs: black, gray, red, and green. The people walking in the streets seemed tiny and far away. Certainly, ours was the finest village in the world.

 Nearby, along our street and in our own courtyard, I saw neighbors washing and scrubbing, scraping and polishing, making their tables and benches kosher for Passover. They carried huge pots of boiling water, heated irons, and red-hot bricks, all of which gave off a white vapor that tumbled and curled and faded away like smoke.

 The smell of spring was in the air, streams twisted along in the gutters, goats bleated, and a man wearing cord-wrapped boots plodded through the ankle-deep springtime mud leading a white horse that pulled a two-wheeled wagon. It was Azriel the Wagoner, an old man and an old horse dragging an old wagon. Azriel the Wagoner was making a delivery on our street.

 'Hello, up there,' we heard Sosil call from the foot of the stairs. 'Sorry to trouble you but you'll have to come down. We have a job for the both of you. You're being called on by the lady of the house to air the books.'

 Father stood up. I dashed from the window to the attic door, and down the rickety stairs we went, bursting into the kitchen.

 Warnings came at us from all sides as soon as we appeared. 'Get away from the Passover cupboard with your bread-stained clothes. Easy there! You're stepping on a Passover sack.'

 'Don't even look in that direction, either of you.'

 'Be careful! Be careful! You're endangering the Passover borsht!'

 Father and I scurried from one spot to another and we were still underfoot as far as Mama and Sosil were concerned. They steered me from here to there and back, loaded me with books, and urged Father on until we were both outside with all the books we possessed.

 Outside, we dusted the old books gently with a cloth, stopping now and then to look inside the covers.

 Standing there together, Father bent over so that I could see into the books. He pointed to letters and showed me how they formed into words; he explained the pictures to me. We had a good time.

 Finally, the books were all aired and dusted and we handed each one carefully to Mama and Sosil, who were waiting in the doorway to take them. They returned the books to their newly scrubbed and freshly lined places on the bookshelf. Father and I then sat on the bench outside, waiting for the next command, which wasn't long in coming. It was now getting close to evening.

 Mama was back in the open doorway. 'The house is ready for inspection by the Lord and Master,' she said, her arms folded, a stern look on her face, but her eyes twinkling. She held out two pairs of slippers to Father.

 'First, both of you remove your shoes and put on these slippers,' she said. 'I've scrubbed all traces of leaven from them and will allow you to wear them inside for the inspection.'

 Father put on his serious-business face. Mama held out a candle, a match, a large wooden spoon, and a feather duster. Father and I sat on the bench and changed to the slippers. Standing, Father took the candle and the match and pointed to me to take the wooden spoon and the feather duster. He lit the candle with the match, waved to me to follow, then raised the candle high while saying a blessing and, with me holding the spoon and duster, we marched inside with great dignity. We were going to make sure that our home was clean enough for Passover.

 I followed Father as he strode about. He looked very important, leaning over to inspect one corner after another, and then peering closely along shelves and into cupboards.

 Mama and Sosil followed close behind us, observing Father's every move. Suddenly Father leaned over, poked his finger at something, and rose to his full height, frowning silently at Mama. He held out his hand to me for the spoon, took it, and passed his hand over the ladle. Mama looked at the bottom of the ladle and gasped; Sosil looked first at the ceiling and then lowered her eyes to stare at the floor.

 Father motioned me closer so that I could see what he had discovered. At the bottom of the

 spoon was the tiniest, tiny crumb of bread. I learned soon afterwards that this was Father's and Mama's serious game: he would secretly hide tiny bits of leaven deep in the corner of a window sill and in other crannies for this final pre-Passover search.

 Mama and Sosil always knew, in advance, where Father would hide the leaven, and would leave it untouched just for this game. I was now one of the players in this serious game, making it a family game. Father told me that it would be my job to join him each year to inspect the house before Passover to make certain no leaven remained.

 Father wrapped the leaven in a bit of paper to be removed from our home. His task done, he blew out the candle flame, and returned it along with the wooden spoon and the feather duster to Sosil. The leaven would be burned outside the following morning along with the last bits of leaven from our neighbors. Sosil went at where the bread crumb had been, wiping the place hard with a damp cloth.

 Our home was now ready for Passover, spotless and kosher. The next afternoon the table was set and the wine cups smiled at me from afar. The aroma of Passover-cooked food was all through the house. It was time to bathe, dress, and prepare ourselves.

 Later that same evening, Father sat in his place at the table like a king, dressed in a white linen robe, his satin hat on the top of his head and a pillow in his chair. Mama, the queen, sat beside him, wearing her splendid wedding dress, a silk kerchief, and a necklace of pearls that seemed to glow in the candles' lights; Mama was so charming. I, the prince, sat opposite them, wearing my new clothes. Alongside me sat Sosil, wearing a new dress and a starched apron that rustled when she moved.

 'This bread of affliction,' sang the king in his fine voice as the queen, her face shining like a star, helped him lift the plate with the matzoths. Sosil looked on, smiling, her hands in her lap.

 Everyone was in high spirits; everyone was in a holiday mood.

 'This year we are slaves, but next year we shall be free men,' the king sang proudly, making himself comfortable on the pillow.

 The room became silent. Father, Mama and Sosil turned their eyes to me. It was time for the prince to speak. I rose to my feet and began:

 'Wherefore is this night different from all other nights...?'

 Later, after our meal, Father asked me to open the door of our home wide so that the Prophet Elijah might enter. I ran to do so and rushed back to watch Elijah's wine goblet, that had been filled to the brim. I saw no change, but Mama smiled at me, and I knew we had been graced by his visit.

 IT''S ONLY A SAFETY PIN!

 How might teenagers of the 21st century and beyond relate to and communicate with grandparents and the elderly? Based on a real encounter, this story tells what happened during my chance meeting with a young adult. The give-and-take had to be cleaned up a bit for this telling, and the dialogue rounded out and organized for continuity and cohesiveness. Somewhat allegorical, the story demonstrates the cross-generation communications that can develop when even widely separated age groups are willing to listen to each other. Many of us have had comparable experiences; they deserve being entered into our lore.

 The rain sheets swirled in from the south, bent, and lurched aimless as drunken ghosts across the college campus. Winds lashed the high crowns of the eucalyptus, and dipped to whine along the corridors and passageways that cut through the patchwork of modernistic academic structures.

 Back and legs lashed by fierce gusts, disoriented to the direction of my destination, I took refuge under the dome of a kiosk. Backing around to the side opposite the driving rain, I doffed my cap to let the water drip; waiting was no problem. I scanned the dozens of leaflets clinging to the kiosk's curved wall, overlapping each other like fish scales: notices of student events long past and yet to be, and places and things from urgently needed to available for the taking.

 'Hey, ol' man.'

 'Yo.' I glanced back. He was in the borderland between the rain and the shelter, leaning against a patch of soggy leaflets. About seventeen in years, six in height, and as skinny as a drenched cat. Tangled blond hair, defeated by the rain, plastered his scalp.

 His black T-shirt was wet, as were his frayed and torn jeans and once- white running shoes. At his feet lay a deflated haversack caked with whatever it had been dragged through, probably since elementary school.

 'Whatcha doin' out on a day like this.'

 His flat voice matched the bored, couldn't care less put-on that went with his years. Squatting, he drew a soil-brown cloth from the haversack and toweled his head and neck.

 'Library,' I said. 'Where's it at?'

 He motioned with the cloth. 'Behind that one with the big windows. I'm headin' that way, too.' He looked up at the sky. 'Gonna let up in a coupla minutes. What're you gonna do in the library?'

 'Check the latest Writer's Market and LMP.' I looked closer at him and repeated, 'LMP. Literary Market Place.'

 'What'll they do for you?'

 'Point me in the right direction.'

 'What for?'

 'Peddle an article I wrote.'

 'Oh. Writer?'

 'Off'n on. Job. Retired now, but keep my hand in.'

 'Hey, man, I like writin'.' He looked at me with interest. What's it take?'

 'Writin'? Takes writin', and rewritin'.'

 'C,mon, man. You're tryin' to sell one. Right?'

 'Yeah.'

 'So you've been there. Writin' for the real world; doin' somthin' you want to. What's it all about; like what are ya tryin' t' sell?'

 'Industrial stuff,' I said, dismissing it all with a shrug and a wave-off. 'How to organize industrial tools to do a job, and then how to bring 'em all together with materials, parts, and nuts and bolts to come up with the finished product.'

 'That's technical writin', huh?'

 'Yep. Well, sort of.'

 'Is technical writin' hard to learn?'

 'People like you and me been doin' it since cave-dwellers first scratched pictures of rock-throwers on their walls. Finest kind training aid for their kids.'

 I pointed to the printed and hand-scribed notes and graffiti in the patches of still exposed concrete.

 'Content may have changed, but the idea is still to get a message across. What about you? Ever tried that kind of writing?'

 'Technical stuff?' His shoulders rose and fell. 'Not much. Student, y'know. I'm still gettin' assignments to write about my last trip to Disneyland. I do use trade manuals to tune the motor on my bike, and the book has lists and drawings of tools and step-by-step instructions on how to do the job. Use 'em all the time, but never thought about where they came from. You put that stuff together?'

 'Made my livin' at it for a while before I retired. But, like I said, I'm a firehouse horse who keeps chasin' fires even after being put out to pasture. In my blood, I guess.'

 He laughed.

 'Tools in a repair manual,' he said, 'and all the different parts and instructions. How d'ya do it? Like, how'd you describe, for example, a tool?'

 He scanned the sky as he spoke. The heavy overcast was lightening, and the wandering rain-ghosts had retreated to make way for drizzle. Rivulets snaked across the concrete quad from one puddle to another, eventually over-brimming into a furrow that widened and deepened into a trench entering a conduit to a ditch or storm sewer somewhere off the campus.

 'Name a few tools,' I said.

 He grinned. 'Pliers. Wrench. Screwdriver. OK?'

 'OK,' I answered. 'More.'

 His eyes contemplated the drizzle, came back to stare at the wet walls of the kiosk, settled on his haversack, and stayed. I followed his glance. A four-inch long, candy-striped, enamel coated safety pin fastened down the flap of its side pocket.

 It's a safety pin,' he chuckled, grinning at me. 'Tool, right?'

 'Could be. How would you get ready to describe it?'

 He stared at me, his face gone blank.' How 'to get ready' to describe a safety pin? What's this 'get ready' bit? It's just a safety pin. You're kiddin'.'

 'The heck I am,' I said.' You just called it a 'tool'. If you're going to describe it, know enough about it to find the words for the job. Words are also tools, whether they describe other tools, or tornadoes, toys, teeth, trees, or tractors.

 'Start with thinking about the readers; will they be in an outfit that makes specialized equipment to fabricate safety pins; will it be a safety pin huckster contacting customers by phone, personal contact, or letter, or how about some kid's mom up-country in an underdeveloped country who never even heard about Velcro flaps on diapers, if she ever heard of diapers at all. Just assume the woman lives in a village where no one ever heard of safety pins until a K-Mart opened up alongside the town rice paddy. What I'm gettin' at is: who's the information for? How much do they really need to know in order to do what they want with the thing?'

 The idea grabbed him and I let him lead. Backs against the kiosk wall, staring out at the drizzle but not seeing it, we analyzed a safety pin and how to lay the groundwork to describe it. He unfastened the pin from his haversack, and using it as an exhibit, we did a parts breakdown, recalled what we could about the range of popular sizes; we estimated raw materials requirements per thousand units; debated how to cut the pin retainer clip from flat stock and form it around the wire firmly so that a child couldn't' separate one from the other; touched on features for machine tools to fabricate safety pins; then jumped to the economics of designing robotic machine tools to mass produce and corner the safety pin market.

 We delved into designing a pin with enough stiffness in the wire so that the pointed end would not bend out of the clip head and keep the tip from accidentally disengaging; we laughed over deburring the parts so that Mom's fingers and the baby's fanny wouldn't' get scratched, and quickly agreed on the need to coat the pin with a rust inhibitor to protect it from the corrosive effects of dank cloths in warm places. We explored packaging, marketing and replacement factors.

 By now his hair was almost dry and he finger-combed it spikey.

 'Hey, ol' man, he said, 'this is a good rap, but it's only a safety pin.'

 'Don't knock it,' I replied. 'Safety pins, in one form or another, have been industrial and household tools for centuries and will be for many more. Anyhow, we're using it as an example, the same principles apply whether it's a safety pin, a computer, TV, or space ship. Getting back to your part of the job, when you've got it all together, and understand it and the customer's needs, then you're close to starting the writin' job.

 'Based on who wants to know, you might need to spell out what the parts are made from, their dimensions, the diameter of the spring loop, and the wire's bending limits. You might need to describe the integrated clip head and the pin shaft and how they were attached.'

 He stared at me, and his eyes widened in wonder at the boundless vistas I had just opened. He was far beyond safety pins.

 'If you're interested in technical writing,' I continued, 'keep in mind that collecting data and understanding it precedes the mechanics of writing.' I paused. 'And when you do write, whatever you're writing about-a safety pin or a space rocket, do it with such precision that what you come up with can form the image you want in the mind of someone who has been both blind since birth and incapable of feeling anything with his or her hands. That's the test.'

 The look of discovery was replaced by skepticism.

 'Aw, c'mon, man, that can't be the real world for technical writers,' he said. 'People who use tools learn by doing, or they follow a book. They see what they're working' on and feel things with their hands.'

 'Let's think about that,' I said. 'Millions of people who see poorly, or not at all, or who have other sensory problems, use precision tools all the time. Many of them use tech data recorded on audio systems or in Braille. The entire field of communications to bypass sensory limitations is just beginning to open up; it'll be part of your world. Data in dozens of arrangements, for design, training aids, or operating instructions are needed by folks who, very often, haven't used the equipment before or who, for some other reason, need specs right there, alongside, all the time. In this world of thousands of languages and dialects, and physical and mental limitations beyond counting, even basic tools, like a safety pin, need to be understood all along the line from designer to user. Understanding means communications; think about it.' (See NOTE)

 We shared silence for a while.

 'Hey, man, I like that,' he said softly.

 We glanced at the sky. The clouds were breaking up. As we abandoned our shelter under the dome, he shook his head. 'All this from a safety pin,' he said. The look of wonder was back.

 'A diaper pin?'

 Raising my arm, I pumped my fist at the sky.' Today, the diaper pin, tomorrow the world.'

 We laughed. At the entrance to the library we shook hands and went our ways. I never saw him again, but I sometimes wonder what he chose for his life's work.

 #

 NOTE: I wrote this story (titled: 'Teenagers' in 1990 and included it in my 1992 edition of 'A Grandpa's Notebook.' During preparation of this Fourth Edition of 'Write Stories To Me, Grandpa!' I was on general distribution of an email, text as follows:

 Quote

 Subj: Free Guidelines from WGBH - Create Accessible Digital Media Date: Thursday, July 13, 2006 8:40:33 PM

 Guidelines for Creating Accessible Digital Media Published by WGBH

 Boston, MA (July 2006). The WGBH National Center for Accessible Media (NCAM), a division of public broadcaster and access technology pioneer WGBH Boston, announces publication of 'Accessible Digital Media: Design Guidelines for Electronic Publications, Multimedia and the Web.'

 These guidelines, providing step-by-step solutions for making a variety of electronic media accessible to users with sensory disabilities, are now available free of charge at http://ncam.wgbh.org/publications/adm/ . A free CD containing the guidelines is also available; e-mail access@wgbh.org to order single or multiple copies.

 These guidelines are the culmination of the 'Beyond the Text' project (http://ncam.wgbh.org/ebooks), conducted by NCAM and funded by the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) of the U.S. Department of Education . Project staff studied methods for integrating accessible multimedia into e-books and digital talking books (DTBs), and the results of this research have been incorporated into the guidelines. The document is a greatly expanded version of recommendations first published in 2000 and revised in 2003, under projects funded by the National Science Foundation .

 'Accessible Digital Media: Design Guidelines for Electronic Publications, Multimedia and the Web' presents solutions to accessibility obstacles in a format designed to educate and assist digital publishers as well as Web and content developers. As with tools previously created by NCAM, including MAGpie (free, do-it-yourself captioning and audio description software) and CaptionKeeper (a tool for migrating captions created for analog video to digital formats), NCAM anticipates that the ready availability of these guidelines will help accelerate the creation of e-books, DTBs, software and Web sites with accessible images, multimedia, interactivity, data tables, graphs, and mathematical and scientific expressions.

 Geoff Freed, project manager for 'Beyond the Text,' comments, 'While the guidelines focus largely on content creation for educational materials, the solutions and recommendations are not restricted to academic settings. Lifelong learning is expected of every individual in the 21st century and advancement in the workplace is often tied to learning new skills and concepts. Corporate trainers and knowledge-management experts in all fields utilize interactive and Web-based content for professional development, and learning materials of all types now include multimediaÑ movies and audio clips and a variety of interactive elements.'

 Those interested in building accessibility into digital materials may also want to review the results of another NCAM initiative which promotes the design of accessible learning management systems, used by many schools, universities and workplaces. NCAM's Specifications for Accessible Learning Technologies (SALT) Partnership established an accessibility working group within the IMS Global Learning Consortium (IMS). This work, producing specifications for a universally designed infrastructure for adaptable learning systems, will result in an international standard from the International Organization on Standardization (ISO).

 Please contact NCAM if you have comments about these guidelines or suggestions for future revisions. We also encourage you to visit NCAM's Web site (http://ncam.wgbh.org) to explore other ongoing access initiatives.

 About NCAM NCAM is part of the Media Access Group at WGBH, which also includes: ¥ The Caption Center, which first developed captioning for TV in the early '70s and, ¥ Descriptive Video Service¨, a TV access service launched in 1990 to offer description of on-screen action, settings, costumes and character expressions to people who are blind and visually impaired.

 Since its founding in 1993, the National Center for Accessible Media has been the R&D pioneer in the field of media access, advancing the accessibility of all forms of media in a wide range of venues, including movie theaters, the Internet, digital television and mobile media in the home, classroom, workplace and community.

 For additional information about all of NCAM's activities and the projects, please visit http://ncam.wgbh.org. unquote

 TRICIA AND DAVID AND THEIR FLYING UNICORNS

 In their early years, children often create an imaginary friend with whom they play. The friend is often a partner in an adventure as well as someone with whom to talk to and just 'do things. '

 Think back to when your children, now parents, were young and romped in nearby fields or the back yard with their personal playmate, frontiersman, cowboy pardner or the companion who was always steadfast and alongside. They climbed trees together, sat side by side in a swing, or moved furniture about in a dollhouse.

 Inevitably, the time arrives to replace the companion of imagination with the realities of growing up. The 'friends' or 'pardners' transform into memories, but rarely fade away entirely.

 The stories tell of two children who have imaginary friends. In one story the youngster is a three year or older girl named Tricia, and in the other the central character is a boy of about the same age. His name is David.

 Writing these stories was an experiment for me in storytelling. The first is for reading the story aloud to a young girl and the second for reading aloud to young boy. The stories are basically the same, their uniqueness is in using feminine nouns, pronouns, and comparable terms for reading to girls and masculine in reading to the boys. In effect, 'girl' characters stories for girls and 'boy' characters for boys and, in that way respect gender relations for the story 'listeners.' Many parents and grandparents have experienced such situations. Something to think about.

 Examples of Internet articles about children and their imaginary friends are at:

 http://www.indiaparenting.com/raisingchild/data/raisingchild141.shtml

 http://www.familyresource.com/parenting/character-development/imaginary-friends-should-you-be-concerned

 #

 Tricia and Bonnie (a 'read aloud' story to a young girl)

 All the woodchucks in or near the town of Woodchuckaton crawled deep into their burrows. Chipmunks crept under piles of chips. Even beavers, over on the other side of town in Beaverton, stayed home.

 It was raining. It had been raining all day, and here it was now, well into the afternoon. Certainly, it was time for the rain to move along to somewhere else.

 Shifting about on the big red cushion, Tricia stared out through the streams of rain that twisted down to the sill on the outside of the windowpane. Sheets of water billowed along the street, one following close behind the other like in a parade.

 Tricia heard her mother humming in the kitchen preparing the evening meal. The evening meal was special. Daddy left home for work early each day, before anyone else was awake. The evening meal was when they all came together for the first time each day as a family.

 Mother hummed or sang often as she went about the house. Tricia loved to listen, and, staring out the window, she sang the words. Their voices blended and finished the song together.

 The sounds of pots and pans and mixers also meant that Daddy would be arriving soon. When Daddy showed up, David would wake from his afternoon nap, and then Daddy, David, and she would play on the rug and talk until it was time for her to help Mother set the table.

 Meanwhile, Tricia was restless. She felt her left foot falling asleep so she turned away from the window and jumped up and down to get rid of the tingling pins and needles. The tingling gone, she ran to the patio screen door in the dining room and peered into the back yard. She knew it would be raining there too, but at least the scenery was different. She had another reason.

 Leaning out the door to see into the far right corner of the yard, Tricia imagined the little stable under the oak tree where Bonnie had her stall. Bonnie was her personal flying unicorn. Tricia waved and, in her mind, Bonnie answered by tossing her mane and ruffling the feathers of her wings. It was time for another adventure.

 Bonnie poked her white horn through the doorway of her little stable and shook her head up and down. When Bonnie, a flying unicorn, answered that way, she was sending only one message: Bonnie wanted to fly. Tricia sat on the floor, next to the doorway and missed being with Bonnie.

 Tricia glanced up at the sky again. The rain had changed to a fine misty drizzle and the clouds to light gray with patches of blue peeping through. A shaft of sunlight cut through the clouds and the patches of blue widened.

 The rain stopped. Off in the distance a rainbow formed an arc across the sky. Tricia dashed to the kitchen. 'Mommy, Mommy, ' she said excitedly, tugging at her mother's apron. 'The rain is over. Bonnie wants to play and so do I. May I go out to play with her? '

 Mother knew, of course, that when Tricia and her friend, Bonnie, played together, Bonnie would often nuzzle Tricia. That would be Bonnie's invitation to Tricia to climb up on to her back and twist her hands into Bonnie's silky white mane. Once that happened Mother was certain that Bonnie would spread her feathered wings and, in Tricia's imagination, they would leap to the skies.

 Smiling to herself, Mother looked out through the kitchen window at the sky. The clouds were breaking up, but the grass was still wet, the ground soggy, and the trees dripped.

 'Daddy will be home soon, Tricia, ' she said, 'and he'll be looking for big hugs from David and you. Then we'll need to prepare the table for dinner. I'll need your help. You know you have a job to do, don't you? '

 'Oh, yes. ' Tricia's curls bounced as she nodded. 'But I won' be gone long. Bonnie and I have been cooped up all day. The rain has stopped. I want to skip and jump. '

 '... and fly. ' Mother's eyes twinkled as she stooped, laughed, and smoothed Tricia's ruffled curls. 'Well, maybe. ' Tricia grinned as she hugged her mother.

 'I suppose you and Bonnie do need some fresh air. ' Mother sighed as she rose and looked out the window again. 'Wear your rain boots and red raincoat, and don't go beyond Wendy's back yard, next door. When Daddy comes home he'll call you in. '

 'OK. '

 Tricia rushed to the hall closet and rummaged about among the shoes and boxes on the floor. In the far corner, the toe of a round red boot stuck out from under a large paper bag. That was one found. Pulling it out, Tricia searched nearby for the other. There it was, behind the umbrella. Waving them high, Tricia jump-skipped to the big cushion beneath the picture window, sat, and pulled them on. Mother came in with the red raincoat and helped Tricia into it.

 Ready.

 Dashing to the back yard doorway, Tricia jumped the short step to the patio.

 'Bonnie, Bonnie, ' she shouted, 'come on. Let's go. '

 That was all Bonnie needed. She came frisking and prancing out of her stall, raising first one hoof and then the other as she approached closer. She nuzzled Tricia's shoulder, and then unfolded and stretched her wings so they would be out of the way for climbing aboard. That was the invitation Tricia was waiting for.

 Taking a tight hold on Bonnie's long silky hair, Tricia swung her leg across the unicorn's back and she was on. Tricia pulled herself forward until she was well out of the way of Bonnie's wings.

 'All set, ' Tricia shouted. 'Away we go! '

 Bonnie trotted to the far end of the yard until she was close to the fence. She faced about and began to run, faster and faster. Her wings spread wide and with a leap they were in the air.

 Up. Up. They spiraled around the old oak tree, rising higher with each loop. From far out, they dipped into a long glide and swooped down under the tree's branches, around and around the swing that grandpa made for David and her, and up and around again. They flew along the top of the back fence, lifted, and cut across the roof of their house from one end to the other. Twisting about, Bonnie hovered above the front yard.

 Along the horizon, Tricia saw the city of Portland hidden in rain curtains and mists.

 Leaning forward, Tricia spoke into Bonnie's ear.

 'Let's fly over to Wendy's back yard and see if she and her dog Blossom are at home. '

 Bonnie snorted her understanding. She could talk, but did that only when it was absolutely necessary. She had a soft gentle snort and would rather speak her thoughts that way. She could also show her feelings by the expressions on her face. It was a lot simpler, and Tricia understood.

 Curving around toward Wendy's yard, Bonnie cleared the top of the fence, swooped, and held steady just above the run in Blossom's kennel.

 'Blossom, ' Tricia called out. 'It's Bonnie and Tricia. We're just flying by today and stopped to say 'hi ' to Wendy and you. Come on out. '

 Blossom stuck her shaggy head out of her house, blinked, and opened her jaws in a dainty, drowsy yawn. Looking up, Blossom smiled, wagged her tail and said, 'Hi, there. Where are you off to? '

 'Oh, ' replied Tricia, 'we're keeping close to home today. Rain, y'know. Also, Daddy will be home soon and I want to be with David to welcome him and play and talk. I'll also be helping my mother get ready for dinner. '

 'I see, ' said Blossom said wistfully, her tail drooping, 'I'd like to be near that table when food is being served. '

 'Where's Wendy? ' Tricia asked.

 'Wendy and his mother are at the library, ' Blossom answered. 'Wendy's books were due to be returned today. '

 'I see. Well, we must be off, Blossom. Please tell Wendy we stopped by to say 'hi ' and that we'll see her another time. ' 'Will do. ' Blossom yawned again and pulled her shaggy head back in.

 Bonnie's wings beat faster and they rose higher and higher. Moments later, they were looking down on Wendy's and Tricia's homes and all the other houses on their street. Tricia saw the glowing signs of the shopping mall a few blocks away. The mists and rain curtains still hid the tall buildings of downtown Portland in the distance.

 Looking toward the end of their street Tricia saw Daddy's car turn the corner.

 'Daddy's home. Daddy's home, ' Tricia shouted. 'Time to head back, Bonnie. '

 Bonnie snorted and dipped into her landing approach. Circling, she lost altitude each time around. Finally, coming in over the fence, Bonnie arranged her wings for landing and bent her legs slightly to soften her touchdown. Tricia tightened her grip.

 Close to the soft earth near the patio, Bonnie's wings beat the air. She hovered for an instant, then lowered until all four hooves touched down. A four-point landing. The flight was over.

 Tricia slipped off Bonnie's smooth back, wrapped her arms around her neck and gave her a tight hug. Bonnie's hoof scraped the ground and she gave another of her soft, gentle snorts.

 Daddy stuck his head out through the patio doorway.

 'Hi, there, ' he laughed, 'what's going on?. '

 'Out and about, Dad, been flying, don'tcha know? ' Tricia answered. 'Bonnie and I just got in from a short flight around the yard and over Wendy's place. '

 'I see, ' Daddy said. 'Well, I'm pleased you made it back in time for our before dinner get-together. David is up. Come on in and we'll play and talk for a minute or so before you help set the table. ' Daddy smiled down at her.

 'Tricia, ' he said. 'Your mother, you and I are also going to have a talk this evening. A meeting; very important. Coming in? '

 'Yup, Daddy. Just about ready. '

 She turned back to Bonnie and gently rubbed the unicorn's nose. Turning away, she crossed the patio and stopped at the short step to the dining room. Daddy opened the screen door and bent down. Tricia wrapped her arms around his neck. Daddy rose, lifting Tricia as he did, and caught her rain boots as they slipped from her feet. He stood them up outside, beside the doorway, to dry. Hugging each other, Daddy and Tricia turned back into the house.

 Tricia hesitated, and glanced back. In her imagination, she saw Bonnie fold her wings gracefully along her sides, lower her head and nibble at the soft, green grass. It was Bonnie's dinner time too.

 With dinner behind them, Tricia joined Mother in clearing the table. Nesting one plate into another and picking up a few pieces of tableware she carried them to the kitchen counter near the dishwasher.

 Daddy rose from his chair, went into the kitchen, and dampened a cloth. On his way back to the dining room he winked at Tricia as they passed. Tricia turned to watch.

 Daddy tiptoed behind David's high chair. David, finished with his eating, busily rolled leftover peas round and round his food dish. Daddy quickly reached around and with the damp cloth wiped breadcrumbs, mashed peas and potatoes, and smears of chocolate pudding from David's face and from behind his ears.

 David howled and twisted away, but Daddy was ready for him. A moment later, his face and hands cleared of food - well, as much as could be expected with only a damp cloth - Daddy hoisted David from his chair and lowered him to the floor.

 Looking back over his shoulder as he scampered on hands and knees into the living room, David tangled with a fire engine. He rolled over on his back, looked up at Daddy, and laughed. The laugh stopped Daddy from rushing forward; the tangle had not been hurtful.

 Daddy stooped and pushed the fire engine toward David, then joined him on the floor. They put their heads together, and as their hands touched and explored the fire engine they explained to each other how the different parts worked.

 Tricia, drawn from her work by the sounds of David's tumble, peered into the living room. Seeing that all was well, she smiled, and carried another armful of dishes and tableware to the kitchen counter.

 'Looks like our men are busy, ' she said.

 Mother nodded as she spooned leftovers into containers for the refrigerator.

 'It's always good to relax after dinner, ' she said. 'When we're done here, we'll join them. Then, in a little while, I'll bathe David and get him ready for bed. You will take your bath, and then you, Daddy and I will have our meeting. '

 'Daddy did say something about a meeting when I came in from the yard, ' Tricia said. 'What's up? '

 'Let's just wait and see, ' Mother smiled mysteriously as they loaded the dishwasher.

 #

 Finished with her bath, hair brushed, Tricia skipped along the hallway from her room to the kitchen. Little brother was down for the night. Tricia, bathed, hair washed and brushed, was squeaky clean in her red nightgown.

 She squeezed a space for herself on the couch between Mother and Daddy and they eased aside to make room. Daddy put his newspaper aside and Mother placed a card in her book to mark her place.

 Glancing up at one, then the other, Tricia put on her serious business face. 'Meeting time? '

 'Meeting time, ' Daddy said.

 'What will we talk about? ' Tricia folded her arms across her chest, straightened her legs, and fixed her eyes on the opposite wall to help her concentrate.

 Family meetings were important. The meetings were still only for the three of them. When David was old enough to share in the family responsibilities, he would join the meetings.

 Daddy said, 'we're going to have a change in the way we live. '

 'A change? ' Tricia frowned. 'Everything is going fine. I'm satisfied with the way we're living now. Why change? '

 Tricia turned to stare at Daddy, then shifted about to look at Mother, who smiled at her. Daddy put his arms around Tricia and pulled her close. Mother reached over and straightened a wisp of Tricia's hair.

 'Tricia, ' Daddy said, 'you may be a child, but you're no longer a baby. You're growing up. Before long, you'll be a young woman. Young women and young men need to learn about the world in which they live. Mothers and fathers, and grandmas and grandpas teach children much about the world and about what is right and what is wrong. That's fine, but knowledge about the world around you also can be given to at some other place. Do you know of another place where a youngster learns about the world? '

 'School? ' Tricia's voice rose.

 'School. ' Daddy nodded slowly.

 'School. ' Mother's soft voice repeated.

 'I'm going to go to school? ' Tricia wriggled from Daddy's embrace, slid off the couch, and hop-skipped to the middle of the living room. Whirling to face her smiling parents, Tricia bounced with excitement.

 Daddy motioned Tricia back to her place on the couch.

 'Our meeting is not finished, ' he said. 'We have more to talk about. '

 Tricia immediately stopped her bouncing. Meetings, she knew, were not to be interrupted by rude behavior. Climbing back onto the couch, she leaned back, folded her legs under her, and folded her arms. Only now her eyes were sparkling with excitement. Pressing her lips together tightly, she forced the no-nonsense business look back to her face.

 'OK, ' she said, I'm listening. '

 'We'll tell you what to expect, Tricia, ' Mother said, 'and, afterward, you may ask questions. '

 Tricia nodded.

 'Not far from where we live here in Woodchuckaton, ' Mother began, 'is the city of Portland. '

 'Right, ' Tricia cut in. 'We've been to the city lots of times on shopping trips and for sightseeing and for visiting parks and .... '

 'Tricia. ' Mother gently put her hand on Tricia's arm. 'Concentrate on what we say. OK? '

 Tricia looked sideways at her mother and her eyes twinkled. 'You mean no more interruptions. Right? '

 'Right. '

 'OK, I'm switched to my listener. '

 'In Portland, and in all the cities and towns around it, are schools where children go to learn about the world. You're going to be a student in one of those schools. You will attend every day except weekends and holidays. Is that clear to you? '

 'Yep. '

 'At the school are worktables, books with lots of pictures, playgrounds, games, and many things to do that are fun. Children, about the same age as you, will be there too. A grown-up will be in the room with you and the other children to teach and help you to understand all the new things you will do and see. '

 Tricia was having a problem being a listener.

 'I think Tricia either wants to say something or ask a question. ' Daddy grinned. 'Shall we give her the floor for a moment? '

 'Very well, ' Mother said.

 The questions tumbled out of Tricia. 'When will I start? What will I learn? What's the teacher's name? Will I get new clothes for school? What about ....? '

 'Wait a minute. Wait a minute. ' Daddy laughed. 'Let's take them one at a time. We can answer a few of your questions, and the teacher of your class will answer others. '

 Mother turned Tricia to face her.

 'You start school in three days, ' she said. 'They know you are coming, just as they know of the others who will be with you. What you learn will depend on your teachers and on you. '

 Suddenly Tricia's face drooped.

 'What about Bonnie? ' Her face clouded, and her voice changed almost to a whisper. She looked from her Mother to her Daddy.

 Mother and Daddy glanced at each other. Daddy lifted Tricia up, placed her on his lap so that they faced each other. Their eyes met.

 'Tell me, Tricia, ' Daddy said as he drew her close and gave her a full all-around hug. 'When we have a change in our lives in which you will be at school every day, where do you think Bonnie will be while you are away? '

 'Bonnie is my friend and we will be friends always. ' Tricia looked sad as she leaned her head on her Daddy's chest. 'She'll be with me wherever I go. Maybe we won' go flying as often as we do now, but I'll know she is close by. '

 Tricia raised her head. 'Tomorrow, ' she said, 'I'll have a talk with Bonnie and explain the change to her. She will understand. '

 Tricia grinned and added with a laugh, 'and that will make me feel good. '

 Tricia and her Mother and Daddy sat on the couch, talking about the changes that would come with school. There would be a new time to get up in the morning, dressing to go out, packing a school lunch and having a comb and brush kit, and things like that.

 Tricia listened, and voiced her thoughts. Mother and Daddy listened carefully.

 The meeting was a sharing.

 After a while, Daddy and Tricia went to the dining room table and Mother brought cookies and milk. They sat at the table, munched and nibbled the cookies, sipped the milk, and talked some more.

 Tricia yawned. Daddy rose, came around the table where Tricia sat, and picked her up. Mother kissed Tricia's cheek as her head rested on Daddy's shoulder.

 Daddy carried Tricia down the long hallway, passed David's room, and opened the door into her softly lit bedroom. Daddy lowered sleepy Tricia to her bed, tucked her in, and kissed her good night.

 The Unseen Playmate

 When children are playing alone on the green, In comes the playmate that never was seen. When children are happy and lonely and good, The Friend of the Children comes out of the wood.

 Nobody heard him, and nobody saw, His is a picture you never could draw, But he's sure to be present, abroad or at home, When children are happy and playing alone.

 He lies in the laurels, he runs on the grass, He sings when you tinkle the musical glass; Whene'er you are happy and cannot tell why, The Friend of the Children is sure to be by!

 He loves to be little, he hates to be big, 'Tis he that inhabits the caves that you dig; 'Tis he when you play with your soldiers of tin That sides with the foe and never can win.

 Tis he, when at night you go off to your bed, Bids you go to sleep and not trouble your head; For wherever they're lying, in cupboard or shelf, Tis he will take care of your playthings himself! From A Child's Garden of Verses

 By Robert Louis Stevenson

 DAVID AND THUNDER (The same story read to a young boy.)

 All the woodchucks in Woodchuckaton crawled deep into their burrows. The chipmunks crept under piles of chips. Even the beavers, over on the other side of town in Beaverton, stayed home.

 It was raining. It had been raining all day, and here it was now, well into the afternoon. Certainly, it was time for the rain to move along to somewhere else.

 Shifting about on the big red cushion, David stared out through the streams of rain that twisted down the outside of the windowpane to the sill. Sheets of water billowed along the street, one following close behind the other like a parade.

 David heard his mother humming in the kitchen preparing the evening meal. The evening meal was special. Daddy left home for work early each day, before anyone else was awake. The evening meal was when they all came together for the first time each day as a family.

 Mother hummed or sang often as he went about the house. David loved to listen, and, staring out the window, he hummed the melody. Their voices blended and they finished the song together.

 The sounds of pots and pans and mixers also meant that Daddy would be arriving soon. When Daddy showed up, Tricia would wake from her afternoon nap, and then Daddy, Tricia and he would play and talk until it was time for him to help Mother set the table.

 Meanwhile, David was restless. He felt his left foot falling asleep so he turned away from the window and jumped up and down to get rid of the tingling pins and needles. The tingling gone, he ran to the patio screen door in the dining room and peered into the back yard. He knew it would be raining there too, but at least the scenery was different. There was another reason too.

 Leaning forward through the doorway so that he could see into the far right corner of the yard, David imagined the little stable under the oak tree where Thunder had his stall. Thunder was his personal flying unicorn. David waved and called out a greeting to his unicorn and, in his mind, Thunder answered by tossing his mane, pawing at the ground, and ruffling the feathers of his mighty wings. It was time for adventure.

 When Thunder, a flying unicorn, answered David that way, it carried only one message: Thunder wanted to fly. David sat on the floor, inside the patio doorway, and missed being with Thunder.

 David glanced up at the sky again. The rain had changed to a fine misty drizzle and the clouds to light gray with patches of blue peeping through. A shaft of sunlight cut through the clouds and the patches of blue widened.

 The rain stopped. Off in the distance a rainbow formed an arc across the sky. David dashed to the kitchen. 'Mom, Mom, ' he said excitedly, tugging at her apron. 'The rain is over. Thunder wants to play and so do I. May I go out to him? '

 Mother knew, of course, that when David and his friend, Thunder, played together, Thunder would often nuzzle David. That would be Thunder's invitation to David to climb up on to his back and twist his hands into Thunder's rough white mane. Once that happened Mother was certain that Thunder would spread his feathered wings and they would leap to the skies.

 Smiling to herself, Mother looked out through the kitchen window at the sky. The clouds were breaking up, but the grass was still wet, the ground was soggy, and the trees dripped.

 'Daddy will be home soon, David, ' she said, 'and he'll be looking for big hugs from Tricia and you. Then we'll need to prepare the table for dinner. I'll need your help. You know you have a job to do, don't you? '

 'Oh, yes. ' David answered and he nodded. 'But I won't be gone long. Thunder and I have been cooped up all day. The rain is gone. I want to run and jump. '

 '...and fly. ' Mother's eyes twinkled as David whirled and laughed. Mother smoothed his ruffled hair.

 'Well, maybe. ' David grinned as he hugged his mother.

 'I suppose you and Thunder do need some fresh air, ' Mother sighed. David rose and looked out the window again. 'Wear your rain boots and red raincoat, and don't go beyond Brett's back yard next door. When Daddy comes home he'll call you in. '

 'OK. '

 David rushed to the hall closet and rummaged about among the shoes and boxes on the floor. In the far corner, the toe of a round red boot stuck out from under a large paper bag. That was one found. Pulling it out, David searched nearby for the other. There it was, behind the umbrella. Waving both boots high, David jump-skipped to the big cushion beneath the picture window, sat, and pulled them on. Mother came in with the raincoat and helped David into it.

 Ready.

 Dashing to the back yard doorway, David jumped the short step to the patio.

 'Thunder, Thunder, ' he shouted. 'Come on. ' Let's go. '

 That was all Thunder needed. He came frisking and prancing out of his little stable, raising first one hoof and then the other as he came closer. He nuzzled David's shoulder, and then unfolded and stretched his wings so they would be out of the way for David to climb aboard. That was the invitation David was waiting for.

 Taking a tight hold on Thunder's mane, David swung his leg across the unicorn's back and he was on. Twisting both hands into the long rough hair David pulled himself forward until he was well out of the way of Thunder's wings.

 'All set, ' David shouted. 'Away we go! '

 Thunder trotted to the far end of the yard until he was close to the fence. He faced about and began to run, faster and faster. His wings spread wide and with a leap they were in the air.

 Up. Up. They spiraled around the old oak tree, rising higher with each loop. From far out, they dipped into a long glide and swooped down under the tree's branches, around the swing that grandpa made for David and his sister, and up and around again. They flew along the top of the back fence, lifted, and cut across the roof of their house from one end to the other. Twisting about, Thunder hovered above the front yard.

 Along the horizon, David saw the city of Portland hidden in rain curtains and mists.

 Leaning forward, David spoke into Thunder's ear. 'Let's fly over to Brett's back yard and see if he and Herbie his Lion friend are at home. '

 Thunder snorted his understanding. He could talk, but did so only when it was absolutely necessary. He had a low, muffled snort so as not to startle people and often spoke his thoughts that way. Also, he used facial expressions to show his feelings. It was a lot simpler, and David always understood.

 Curving around toward Brett's yard, Thunder cleared the top of the fence, swooped, and held steady just above Herbie the Lion's house.

 'Herbie, ' David called out. 'It's Thunder and David. We're just flying by today and stopped to say 'hi ' to Brett and you. Come on out. '

 Herbie the Lion stuck his shaggy head out of his house, blinked, and opened his jaws in an enormous drowsy yawn. Looking up, he grinned and said, 'Hi, there. Where are you off to? '

 'Oh, ' replied David, 'we're keeping close to home today. Rain, y'know. Also, Daddy will be home soon and I want to be with Tricia to welcome him and play and talk. I'll also be helping my mother get ready for dinner. '

 'Quite right. Quite right, ' Herbie said, shaking his head wisely, 'that is as it should be. '

 'Where's Brett? ' David asked.

 'Brett and his mother are at the library, ' Herbie answered. 'Brett's books were due to be returned today. '

 'I see. Well, Herbie, we must be off. Please tell Brett we stopped by to say 'hi ' and that we'll see him another time. '

 'Will do. ' Herbie the Lion yawned again and pulled his shaggy head back in.

 Thunder's wings stretched, beat faster, and they rose higher and higher. Soon they were looking down on Brett's and David's homes and all the other houses on their street. David saw the glowing signs of the shopping mall a few blocks away. The mists and rain curtains still hid the tall buildings of downtown Portland in the distance. Looking toward the end of the street David saw Daddy's car turn the corner.

 'Daddy's home. Daddy's home, ' David shouted. 'Time to head back, Thunder. '

 Thunder snorted softly and dipped into his landing approach. The circling brought them lower each time around. Finally, coming in over the fence, Thunder tilted his wings for landing and bent his legs slightly to soften his landing. David tightened his grip.

 Close to the soft earth near the patio, Thunder's wings beat the air. He hovered for an instant, then lowered until all four hooves touched down. A four-point landing. The flight was over.

 David slipped off Thunder's smooth back and wrapped his arms around the unicorn's neck. He reached back and patted Thunder's rump. Thunder's front right hoof scraped the ground and he answered with another snort.

 Daddy stuck his head out through the patio doorway.

 'Hi, there, ' he laughed, 'what's going on? '

 'Out and about, Dad, been flying, don'tcha know? ' David answered. 'Thunder and I just got in from a short flight around the yard and over Brett's place. '

 'I see, ' Daddy said. 'Well, I'm pleased you made it back in time for our get-together before dinner. Tricia is up. Come on in while I get her. We'll play and talk for a minute before you help set the table. '

 Daddy smiled down at David.

 'David, ' he said. 'Your mother, you and I are also going to have a talk this evening. A meeting; very important. Coming in? '

 'Yup, Daddy, just about ready. '

 He turned back to Thunder and, in his mind, rubbed the unicorn's nose. Turning away, he crossed the patio and stopped at the short step to the dining room. Daddy opened the screen door and bent over. David wrapped his arms around Daddy's neck. Daddy rose, lifted David as he straightened, and caught David's rain boots as they slipped from his feet. He stood them up to dry outside under the eaves to dry. Holding his Dad's hand, they started into the house.

 David hesitated, and glanced back. He imagined Thunder gracefully fold his wings along his flanks, lower his head and nibble at the soft, green grass. It was Thunder's dinner time too.

 #

 With dinner behind them, David joined Mother in clearing the table. Nesting one plate into another and picking up a few utensils he carried them to the kitchen counter near the dishwasher.

 Daddy rose from his chair, went to the kitchen, and dampened a cloth. On his way back to the dining room he winked at David as they passed. David turned to watch.

 Daddy tiptoed behind Tricia's high chair. Tricia, having finished eating, busily rolled leftover peas round and round her food dish. Daddy quickly reached around and with the damp cloth wiped breadcrumbs, mashed peas and potatoes, and smears of chocolate pudding from Tricia's face and from behind her ears.

 Tricia howled and twisted away, but Daddy was ready for her. Moments later, her face, hands and arms cleared of food - well, as much as could be expected with only a damp cloth - Daddy hoisted Tricia from her chair and lowered her to the floor.

 Looking back over her shoulder as she scampered on hands and knees into the living room, Tricia tangled with David's fire engine. She rolled over on her back, looked up at Daddy, and laughed. The laugh stopped Daddy from rushing forward; the tangle had not been hurtful.

 Daddy stooped and pushed the fire engine toward Tricia, then joined her on the floor. They put their heads together, and as their hands touched and explored the fire engine they explained to each other how the different parts worked.

 David, drawn from his work by the sounds of Tricia's tumble, peered into the living room. Seeing all was well, he smiled, and carried another armful of dishes and tableware to the kitchen counter. 'They're busy, ' he said.

 Mother nodded as he spooned leftovers into containers for the refrigerator.

 'It's always good to relax after dinner, ' she said. 'When we're done here we'll join them. Then, in a little while, I'll bathe Tricia and put her to bed. You will take your bath, and then you, Daddy and I will have our meeting. '

 'Daddy did say something about a meeting when I came in from the yard, ' David said. 'What's up? '

 'Let's just wait and see, ' Mother smiled mysteriously as they loaded the dishwasher.

 #

 David skipped along the hallway that led from his room to the family room. Little sister was down for the night; he, bathed, hair washed, dried and brushed, was squeaky clean in his blue pajamas.

 David squeezed a space for himself on the couch between Mother and Daddy and they eased aside to make room. Daddy put his newspaper aside and Mother slipped a card into the book she had been reading to mark her place.

 Glancing up at one, then the other, David put on his serious business face.

 'Meeting time? '

 'Meeting time, ' Daddy said.

 'What will we talk about? ' David said as he folded his arms across his chest, straightened his legs, and fixed his eyes on the opposite wall to help his concentration.

 Family meetings were important. The meetings were still only for the three of them. When Tricia was old enough to share in family business, she would join the meetings.

 Daddy said, 'we're going to have a change in the way we live. '

 'A change? ' David frowned. 'Everything is going fine. I'm satisfied with the way we're living now. Why change? '

 David turned to stare at Daddy, he then shifted about to look at Mother, who smiled at him. Daddy put his arms around David and pulled him close. Mother reached over and straightened a wisp of his hair.

 'David, ' Daddy said, 'you may be a child, but you're no longer a baby. You're growing up. Before long, you'll be a young man. Young men and young women need to learn about the world in which they live. Mothers and fathers and grandmas and grandpas teach children much about the world and about what is right and what is wrong. That's fine, but knowledge about the world around you can also be given to you from somewhere else. Do you know of another place where a youngster learns about the world? '

 'School? ' David's voice rose.

 'School. ' Daddy nodded slowly.

 'School. ' Mother's soft voice repeated.

 'I'm going to go to school? ' David wriggled from Daddy's embrace, slid off the couch, and hop-skipped to the middle of the living room. Whirling to face his smiling parents, David bounced with excitement. Daddy motioned David back to the couch.

 'Our meeting is not finished, ' he said. 'We have more to talk about. '

 David immediately stopped bouncing. Meetings, he knew, were not to be interrupted by rude behavior. Climbing back onto the couch, he leaned back, stuck his legs straight out, and folded his arms. Only now his eyes were sparkling with excitement. Pressing his lips together, he forced the no-nonsense business look back to his face.

 'OK, ' he said, I'm listening. '

 'We'll tell you what to expect, David, ' Mother said, 'and, afterward, you may ask questions. '

 David nodded.

 'Not far from where we live, ' Mother began, 'is the city of Portland. '

 'Right, ' David cut in. 'We've been to the city lots of times on shopping trips and for sightseeing and for visiting parks and... '

 'David, ' Mother put her hand on David's arm. 'Concentrate on what we say. OK? '

 David looked sideways at his mother and his eyes twinkled. 'You mean no more interruptions. Right? '

 'Right. '

 'OK, I'm switched to my listener. '

 'In Portland, and in all the cities and towns around it are schools where children go to learn about the world. You're going to be a student in one of those schools. You will attend every day except weekends and holidays. Is that clear to you? '

 'Yep. '

 'At the school are worktables, books with lots of pictures, playgrounds, games, and many things to do that are fun. Children who are the same age as you will be there too. A grown-up will be in the room with you and the other children to teach and help you to understand the things you will do and see. '

 David was having a problem being a listener.

 'I think David wants to say something or ask a question. ' Daddy grinned. 'Shall we give him the floor for a moment? '

 'Very well, ' Mother said.

 The questions tumbled from David. 'When will I start? What will I learn? What's the teacher's name? Will I get new clothes? What about...? '

 'Wait a minute. Wait a minute. ' Daddy laughed. 'Let's take them one at a time. We can answer a few of your questions. Your teacher will tell you and the other students what you need to know. ' Mother turned David to face her.

 'You start school in three days, ' he said. 'They know you are coming, just as they know of the others who will be with you. What you learn will depend on your teacher and on you. ' Suddenly David's face drooped. In a low voice he asked, 'What about Thunder? '

 Mother and Daddy glanced at each other. Daddy picked David up and settled him on his lap so that they faced each other. Their eyes met.

 'Tell me, David, ' Daddy said as he drew him close and gave him a full all-around hug, 'When we make this change in our lives in which you will be at school every day, where do you think Thunder will be while you are away? '

 'Thunder is my friend and we will be friends always, ' David's voice was almost a whisper as he leaned his head on his Daddy's chest. 'He'll be with me wherever I go. Maybe we won' go flying as often as we do now, but I'll know he is close by. '

 David raised his head, grinned, and added with a laugh, 'Tomorrow morning I'll have a talk with Thunder and explain to him what's happening. He'll understand, 'and that'll make me feel good. '

 David, Mother and Daddy sat on the couch a while longer, talking about the changes that would come with school. There would be a new time to get up in the morning, dress to go out, pack a school lunch and things like that.

 David listened, and voiced his thoughts to which Mommy and Daddy listened carefully. The meeting was a sharing.

 After a while, Daddy and David went to the dining room table and Mother brought cookies and milk. They sat at the table, munched and nibbled the cookies, sipped the milk, and talked some more.

 David yawned. Daddy rose, came around to where David sat, and picked him up. Mother kissed David's cheek as his head rested on Daddy's shoulder. Daddy carried David down the long hallway, past Tricia's room, and opened the door into David's softly lit bedroom. Daddy lowered sleepy David to his bed, tucked him in, and kissed him good night.

 ~~~~~~~~~~~~

 Man is a social being, and therefore, among all the objects for his love that there are in the universe and beyond it, he ought, I suppose, love his fellow human beings first and foremost. But he should also love all non-human living creatures, animals, and plants as well because they are all akin to man; they too are branches of the great tree of life. This tree has a common root; we do not know where the root comes from, but we do know that we all spring from it. Man should also love inanimate nature, because this, too, is part of the universe which is man's habitat.

 --

 (Our grandchildren) are not responsible for the existing state of the world. The reality is that the middle-aged generation (the parents of the rising generation) brought them into the world and is educating or miseducating them, or just ignoring their educational needs. If the middle-years or older generations are indignant at the rising generation, who is really at fault? Who shirked their responsibilities to their children and grandchildren? And with whom lies the initiative to resolve these inadequacies? In effect, it is up to the older generation to take the initiative to bring about reconciliation between itself and the generations that are to follow them.

 (Surviving The Future, Arnold Toynbee, Oxford University Press, 1971)

 ABOUT THE AUTHOR

 Meyer (Mike) Moldeven was a civilian logistics analyst with the USAF from 1941 until 1974. He was a survival equipment maintenance supervisor in the Pacific Area during the war, and wrote maintenance manuals afterwards. He subsequently transferred to a USAF base in North Africa where he developed a logistics plan to support the US Air Force Strategic Air Command over North Africa in the event of war with the USSR. During the United States early post-Sputnik initiatives to create a military space program he critiqued logistics annexes of aerospace industries' pre-program definition concepts for a national space program. Among the studies he reviewed were military infrastructure and logistics for 'Space Logistics, Operations, Maintenance and Rescue' (SLOMAR).

 ALSO BY MEYER MOLDEVEN

 Fixing Production Mistakes, Management Aid for Small Manufacturers, number 242 (March 1979), United States Small Business, SCORE Program, Small Business Administration

 Supervisory Audit of Internal Operations, National Development, The Infrastructure Journal (Middle East, Africa, Asia), November-December 1981

 Post-Delivery Equipment Support, National Development, The Infrastructure Journal, March 1983

 Suicide Prevention Must Be Everybody's Business, Army, Navy and Air Force Times; January 1985

 Military-Civilian Teamwork in Suicide Prevention, Armed Forces' Strategies, Procedures and Responsibilities to Implement their Policy that Suicide Prevention Must Be Everybody's Business, Moldeven Publishing, 1985, 1988, 1994,

 Write Stories to Me, Grandpa!, Creating and Illustrating Read-aloud Letter Stories to your Grandchild, Moldeven Publishing, 1987

 A Grandpa's Notebook 'How to....' Ideas and Stories To Encourage Grandparent-Grandchild Interaction, Communications and Well-Being, Moldeven Publishing 1992 (The online edition of the Year 2000 edition of A Grandpa's Notebook may be freely downloaded from the Project Gutenberg Library Archive Foundation at: http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/2737 )

 In the early 1990s Moldeven published and widely disseminated 'The Too-Faraway Grandparents' Newsletter' now long out-out-of print.

 2 RTEXTR*ch

 

 

 A free ebook from http://manybooks.net/