1
##
can't	cannot
could've	could have
couldn't	could not
couldn't've	could not have
didn't	did not
doesn't	does not
don't	do not
hadn't	had not
hadn't've	had not have
hasn't	has not
haven't	have not
he'd	he would
he'd've	he would have
he'll	he will
he's	he is
how'd	how would
how'll	how will
how's	how is
I'd	I would
I'd've	I would have
I'll	I will
I'm	I am
I've	I have
isn't	is not
it'd	it would
it'd've	it would have
it'll	it will
it's	it is
let's	let us
ma'am	madam
mightn't	might not
mightn't've	might not have
might've	might have
mustn't	must not
must've	must have
needn't	need not
not've	not have
o'clock	of the clock
shan't	shall not
she'd	she would
she'd've	she would have
she'll	she will
she's	she is
should've	should have
shouldn't	should not
shouldn't've	should not have
that'll	that will
that's	that is
there'd	there would
there'd've	there would have
there're	there are
there's	there is
they'd	they would
they'd've	they would have
they'll	they will
they're	they are
they've	they have
wasn't	was not
we'd	we would
we'd've	we would have
we'll	we will
we're	we are
we've	we have
weren't	were not
what'll	what will
what're	what are
what's	what is
what've	what have
when's	when is
where'd	where did
where's	where is
where've	where have
who'd	who would
who'll	who will
who're	who are
who's	who is
who've	who have
why'll	why will
why're	why are
why's	why is
won't	will not
would've	would have
wouldn't	would not
wouldn't've	would not have
y'all	you all
y'all'd've	you all would have
you'd	you would
you'd've	you would have
you'll	you will
you're	you are
you've	you have
##
Please
What time is it?
How is the weather?
How are you?
What is your name?
Thank you
You are welcome
Good night
Who is that?
Where are you going?
I don’t want to
Do you understand?
Where do you come from?
Whisper it to me
Can you speak Pig Latin?
What are you talking about?
What is the password?
What is the answer for...?
Why are you doing that?
I’m in trouble
Hide the gift now
Wait until she leaves
Bring it tomorrow
Follow me
Don’t leave
Go now
I don’t like this
Why is he here?
What is her name?
Do you have the homework?
He is so cute
Call me
Here is my number
Don’t tell them
This is a secret
Please remind me
No way
##
A Tale of Two Cities LITE(tm)
     -- by Charles Dickens

     A lawyer who looks like a French Nobleman is executed in his place.

The Metamorphosis LITE(tm)
     -- by Franz Kafka

     A man turns into a bug and his family gets annoyed.

Lord of the Rings LITE(tm)
     -- by J. R. R. Tolkien

     Some guys take a long vacation to throw a ring into a volcano.

Hamlet LITE(tm)
     -- by Wm. Shakespeare

     A college student on vacation with family problems, a screwy
     girl-friend and a mother who won't act her age.
##
For many people (myself among them), the Python language is easy to fall in love with.
Since its first appearance in 1991, Python has become one of the most popular dynamic,
programming languages, along with Perl, Ruby, and others. Python and Ruby have
become especially popular in recent years for building websites using their numerous
web frameworks, like Rails (Ruby) and Django (Python). Such languages are often
called scripting languages as they can be used to write quick-and-dirty small programs,
or scripts. I don’t like the term “scripting language” as it carries a connotation that they
cannot be used for building mission-critical software. Among interpreted languages
Python is distinguished by its large and active scientific computing community.
Adoption of Python for scientific computing in both industry applications and academic
research has increased significantly since the early 2000s.

For data analysis and interactive, exploratory computing and data visualization, Python
will inevitably draw comparisons with the many other domain-specific open source
and commercial programming languages and tools in wide use, such as R, MATLAB,
SAS, Stata, and others. In recent years, Python’s improved library support (primarily
pandas) has made it a strong alternative for data manipulation tasks. Combined with
Python’s strength in general purpose programming, it is an excellent choice as a single
language for building data-centric applications.
##
Let's sentence ma'am let's full of ain't contractions I'm i'm couldn't've I'd.
##
If capture groups are used, then the matched text is also included in the result.
##
The Gettysburg Address

Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent,
a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all
men are created equal.

Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any
nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great
battlefield of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as
a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation
might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.

But, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate - we cannot consecrate - we cannot
hallow - this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will
little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what
they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the
unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced.
It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before
us - that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for
which they gave the last full measure of devotion - that we here highly resolve
that these dead shall not have died in vain - that this nation, under God,
shall have a new birth of freedom - and that government of the people, by
the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.
##
For many people (myself among them), the Python language is easy to fall in love with.
Since its first appearance in 1991, Python has become one of the most popular dynamic,
programming languages, along with Perl, Ruby, and others. Python and Ruby have
become especially popular in recent years for building websites using their numerous
web frameworks, like Rails (Ruby) and Django (Python). Such languages are often
called scripting languages as they can be used to write quick-and-dirty small programs,
or scripts. I don’t like the term “scripting language” as it carries a connotation that they
cannot be used for building mission-critical software. Among interpreted languages
Python is distinguished by its large and active scientific computing community. Adop-
tion of Python for scientific computing in both industry applications and academic
research has increased significantly since the early 2000s.
For data analysis and interactive, exploratory computing and data visualization, Python
will inevitably draw comparisons with the many other domain-specific open source
and commercial programming languages and tools in wide use, such as R, MATLAB,
SAS, Stata, and others. In recent years, Python’s improved library support (primarily
pandas) has made it a strong alternative for data manipulation tasks. Combined with
Python’s strength in general purpose programming, it is an excellent choice as a single
language for building data-centric applications.
##
